[music]
The US economy really was massively
resilient. The
>> labor market is a different labor
market.
>> The unemployment rate [music] is moving
higher gradually.
>> It's frozen but not melting down.
>> We're going to start to see some signs
of the labor market stabilizing over the
next several months.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
[music] Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning. Good morning for
our audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, it's payrolls Friday.
Economists looking for a firm jobs
number and a drop in unemployment as the
White House is bracing for a possible
ruling on Liberation Day tariffs.
President Trump is pushing Fanny and
Freddy to buy $200 billion in mortgage
[music] bonds. The president looking to
boost the economy. All I can say is
tracking this news cycle is kind of like
watching pinball at a very close speed
trying to make sure that you understand
where the ball is going at any given
time. There are some broader themes
here. The focus in the economy, you are
right to point out with respect to the
mortgage market. How much is housing
affordability going to remain one of the
drum beats heading into the midterm
elections and how much is this going to
end up focusing on Fanny and Freddy?
Yes. And buying uh bonds, $200 billion
has to be put in the scope of $9
trillion for the mortgage bond market.
At the same time, the Federal Reserve
has to come back into focus. [music]
>> The president's had quite a week, hasn't
he? He has.
>> You know, it's a long list of things
he's done this week. I've picked out
three. So, the president went after
executive pay of certain firms, went
after capital returns, he's gone after
investing in housing, and he's added
more to the list going into the weekend.
>> I feel like we actually are this [music]
week, the first full week of January of
2026, drinking from a fire hose. The
list is [music] unending when it comes
to what the president is trying to do
right now and really use the weight of
the White House for it. We talked about
housing. [music] We talked about the
fact that he's also going to be meeting
with oil executives today. He says that
they're going to be investing hundred
billion dollars. 14 of them are lining
up. Not quite sure. That's the readout
I'm getting from the shell patch right
now, but the president says these
[music] individuals want to invest. On
top of that, he's talking about a lot of
foreign policy. He's going to be meeting
with the Venezuelan opposition leader
next week. [music] And at the same time
as Iran has protests overnight and is
absolutely blackout right now in that
country. He is saying that he's putting
them on warning if they go after any of
these protesters.
>> We need to sharpen our focus a little
bit. So let's focus on one thing. 8:30
[music] Eastern time, the jobs report.
And the attention firmly on one data
point, one metric, the unemployment
rate. Unemployment [music]
set to come back in just a little bit a
little bit later this morning from 4.6
to 4.5. Does that shut the door on the
rate cut [music] debate at month end? To
me, this is the ultimate question,
right? How much does this end up end up
being a bare case for the bond market
and seeing a [music] sell-off that does
continue? Because people have been
expecting any kind of further weakening
in the labor market to allow the Fed to
move as soon as January 28th. If you do
get the unemployment rate ticking down,
how much disscent do you have in the
Federal Reserve? Do you see those
[music] fissures in that much more
focus? And how much more is President
Trump incentivized to announce a
different Fed chair in short order? It
could come on the front end or the back
end of Davos. That's according to
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson.
>> What he said in the last 24 hours, but I
feel like we've been waiting for weeks
and [music] been told the same thing is
coming. It's coming and apparently it's
coming now in the next two weeks.
>> You could say weeks, you could say
months. We've been talking about this
for a long time.
>> It was supposed to be in the fall. I was
told in April is supposed to be in the
fall. Also interesting though, we do
have officially what the names [music]
are and I thought Rick Reer had sat down
for his interview yet. He's the only one
that's pending an interview. Maybe
that's why they're unsure whether it
comes before [music] or after Davos. If
you're just joining us, welcome to the
program. Lots to get through this
morning. Bond yields a little bit higher
up by two basis points at the top end or
close [music] to the top end at a recent
range. Very close to 420, 418. Call it
419 this morning. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Steven Major of
Tradition with stocks holding steady.
The former senior White House trade
adviser Kelly Shaw on Supreme Court
opinions and Claudia S of New Sentry
Advisers looking ahead to the latest
jobs data. We begin this hour with
stocks on hold and the dollar at a
one-mon high ahead of the payrolls
report later this morning. Steven Major
of Tradition writing, "Economic data
relative to expectations has softened.
There is fundamental support to keep
lowering the Fed funds rate to a level
below where the forwards are currently
implying." Steven joins us now for more.
Steven, welcome to the program, sir.
It's always good to see you and
congratulations on the new seat. Let's
talk about the data this morning. How
relevant is the jobs report at 8:30 with
your opinion in mind?
>> Well, I think I think your setup said it
all, John. Um, there's other stuff going
on, isn't there? So, uh, there's the
fiscal news perhaps coming through later
and and everything else that's
happening, uh, globally. So, it's just
one it's just one data point and I think
I think you've covered it pretty well.
Uh, regarding this one, what what really
matters is the evidence on about what
all this does for wages because I think
there's been a clear trend these last
few months where the path of of wage
growth is consistent with something
nearer to the 2% inflation target. So
what you want today is something that
doesn't disrupt that really. Of course,
it's complicated because you've got the
labor pool being affected by by
migration factors and and you've got
some softening of demand for labor
that's been evident in previous months.
You know, o overall it's all very well
looking at the unemployment rate and the
and the payrolls number, but it's it's
the bigger picture, how this fits into
the bigger picture that matters. Well,
Steve, the bigger picture I think for
many is that we've seen a notable
increase in slack captured by several
data points. You point to wages, you can
point to the unemployment rate rising
more recently as well. There is a take
on Wall Street at the moment, Steve, and
I wonder if you'd push back that if
things stabilize, particularly with
things like the unemployment rate, it
closes the door on interest rate cuts.
Do you see things differently for the
year ahead?
I I don't know about that, John, because
uh so so first of all, given all the
things that have been happening and and
and you listed the the the surprises,
the shocks that we've been experiencing
these last few weeks. Given all of that,
would you have believed that the 10-year
Treasury would have been in a range of
uh six basis points, I'm told by my
colleagues downstairs, six basis points
this year, six six whole basis points.
Um, in fact, it's been in a in a tight
range for quite some time now, even
before the the start of this year. So,
you know, I I think that that the the
bond market's holding in pretty well.
The the um um if if you got a strong a
strong data release today, something
that indicated the economy was much
stronger than we expected. I think the
cynics out there might might question
whether the data was correct in the same
way that you could say if it was
exceedingly soft. U I think it's the
broader trend that matters. You got to
smooth these numbers out over a period
of time. I think the trend and the path
is quite clear towards lower rates and
therefore there's an asymmetric bias in
place. If you get a shock that says that
the rates aren't going down, I don't
think it's going to bother the market
that much. Uh but we're skewed towards
opening the the floor for rates and and
seeing how far they can go down. Um I
don't see that many people talking about
rate hikes anymore. It's only a few
months ago that that was being being
mentioned on shows like this.
>> It seems like Stephen this is no longer
a data dependent market as you just laid
out at least not a data point dependent
market just because people have so many
questions around the data. This is
potentially a market though that could
be royal by events and you mentioned
some of them including the AIPA ruling
that could come as soon as today. What
kind of effect would it have on the bond
market if the tariffs passed under the
ter the AIPA rule in the United States
were to be repealed pushed back in any
kind of way?
Okay, that kind of scenario is going to
blow us out of that six basis point
range and and the question is whether we
would close still outside of the range
or whether we'd still be outside of the
range next week. Ultimately, we're
looking at whether there is is a path
I'm using that word path again uh
towards uh a a fiscal number that is
manageable. Is it possible that the that
the deficit is is within a reasonable
level? Now, of course, there could be
some disruption to the to to the
president's plans and and it's it's
clear there's a risk here, but you know,
ultimately uh the bond market's going to
clear. Um um the auctions are going to
get done. Um there's a question about at
what price and at what cost because the
bond market's going to get done. I can
assure you of that. The question is
whether it's going to come at the
expense of some other asset class.
>> Yeah,
>> that's really the issue, right,
>> Stephen? You keep talking about the six
basis point gap and you're right. I
mean, even when you look at the move the
the forward implied volatility index in
10-year Treasury yields, it's incredibly
low. You aren't necessarily seeing uh
much expectation for disruption. How do
you know that this is resiliency and not
complacency?
Yeah, look, that's a fair a fair point
to maybe we're all just so beaten up and
and already exhausted with the with with
the the shots. I'll give I'll give you
an anecdote on this. You're putting
together my most recent piece like many
analysts, you tend to go through it at
the weekend. So, I'm sitting there on a
Sunday looking at the text and thinking,
"Oh no, with the news flow last weekend
over Venezuela, I was thinking
everything I've written here is
irrelevant." But I came in on Monday
morning and I was still able to publish
it. Now, how how is that possible? It
just
how how could I have been so wrong with
my judgment on the Sunday compared to
the Monday? And and and I think that
most of us are experiencing the same
thing. Uh anyone who's involved in in in
in this market at the moment. Uh so it
could be that we're complacent, but it
could also be with the fact that we're
resigning ourselves to the reality that
rates aren't going up and they're
probably going to go down. So as I said,
I think the data is consistent with
dates going down towards where the
forwards imply and maybe less and uh
with some of the changes coming at the
Fed, I would I would suggest that the
balance is tipping to rates going even
lower.
>> Well, a lot has already happened. A lot
has already happened from Sunday,
Stephen. The president this week has
really taken a focus on the housing
market. Um, even if the Fed Yeah.
continues to cut interest rates, is that
going to help the US housing market?
Will that help mortgage rates?
>> Look, so so what proportion is that
money of the total stock of mortgages?
It's it's not that high, is it? I I
haven't run all the all the numbers yet,
but we're talking about a few hundred
billion in a multi- trillion market. So,
I don't know whether it how much of a
gamecher it is. You know, ultimately
getting the 10-year rate down towards
three rather than four would be one of
the best things that could be done for
the housing market right now. Um, so I
guess the intervention that's just
happened is going to help, but I haven't
run the numbers yet. I don't know
whether it's going to have a have a
major impact. I actually mean if the Fed
cuts interest rates, is that really
going to meaningfully help the mortgage
market?
>> Ah, thank thank you. Thank you. I
thought you were talking referring to
the intervention uh for Freddy and
Fanny. Um, now if if the short rate goes
down another 100 basis points, the whole
term structure is going to come down.
The 10-year uh on current form isn't
falling as much, but it doesn't mean to
say it won't still go down. So, depends
what the delta is between the rate cuts
and and the 10year. I would I would
suggest if if policy rates go towards 2%
or even less then you could imagine that
tens are going to have a three handle
and probably low threes.
>> Final question Steve what's more likely
year end that the tenure yield is at 3%
or West Ham is playing Premier League
football.
>> That's an impossible uh one to answer.
Look, John, ba ba b b b b b b b b b b b
b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b
b b b b b b b b based on the based on
the fact that West Ham are seven points
a drift. Um it's pretty obvious where
the the probabilities lie there, but you
think things can change. It it it it
looks like a close call between the two
and I'm not going to I'm not going to
give you an answer if you don't mind.
>> That was unfair of me, Steve. I
apologize. It's good to see you, buddy.
As always, Steve, a major of tradition
on this bond market and a sprinkle of
Premier League football and why he
believes the fundamentals are set up,
they will support further interest rate
cuts. Yeah, and right now the idea of
whoever is going to replace the uh
current Fed chair will only make it more
so. So since that will only buy us rates
lower.
>> To Steve's point, what a tight range
we've seen so far year to date.
>> I keep going back to this question. Is
it resiliency or complacency? And
ultimately, I think everyone's saying
resiliency because of all of these
factors. Let's see if there is anything
that can break through the noise. And it
is noise. My goodness, how many
different topics we're talking about.
>> So far today on a closing basis, a five
to six basis point range on a 10-year
maturity. The yields are higher this
morning by two basis points. Let's call
it 419. With an update on stories
worldwide this morning, let's check in
with Yahara with your Bloomberg brief.
Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump is
preparing to meet with 20 oil executives
as he looks [music] for help to rebuild
Venezuela's energy sector. The attendees
include fracking pioneer Harold Ham and
representatives from Chevron, [music]
Exxon Mobile, and Kico Phillips, and
more. The administration's plans to
rebuild Venezuela's oil sector could
cost up to [music] $100 billion over the
next decade. Meanwhile, President Trump
directing Fanny May and Freddy Mack to
purchase [music] $200 billion in
mortgage bonds to bring down housing
costs. The president's claiming the move
will drive down mortgage rates. Some
estimates suggesting a drop of at least
a quarter of a point. And this just in,
Meta announcing new deals to power the
company's AI data centers. The
agreements could total more than 6
gawatts of nuclear power, enough for
about 5 million homes. Meta says it will
purchase electricity from Vistra, Ollo,
and Terrap Power. The [music] deals
would make the tech giant one of the
largest buyers of nuclear power among
the hyperscalers. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John,
>> amazing. Those deals keep coming. They
keep piling up. Yhara, thank you. More
from Mihara in about 30 minutes time. Up
next on the program, the push for
affordable housing.
>> What we want is affordability to get
better. What the Fanny and Freddy buying
will do is compress the spread between
mortgages and treasury bills. [music]
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Janette
Lowe of Stratika live from New York
City. Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> The rally hitting pause going into
Friday just below Tuesday's all-time
highs this morning just about unchanged.
Treading water going into the payrolls
number at 8:30 Eastern time. [music]
Futures this morning up by 0.06%. 06% on
the NASDAQ up by 0.14.
In the bond market, 2's, [music] 10, and
30s shaping up as follows. We talked
about that very tight range on a 10-year
maturity. Yields at the top [music] end
of that range for the year, 41850,
higher by two basis points. We're in a
very different position to start the
year compared to where we were last
year. [music] 3-month moving average for
payrolls coming into 2025, north of
200K. 3-month moving average coming into
[music] 2026, just north of 20K. That's
a very different jobs picture for this
country.
>> Yeah. and a very different expectation
about what kind of break even rate we
need to really uh keep America employed,
right? So that's why the question is
really going to be the unemployment rate
because ultimately we don't have a sense
based on the demographic shift of what a
good or bad labor market number really
is.
>> We're hoping that number stabilizes a
little bit later this morning [music]
and the overwhelming expectation from
Wall Street at least is that you'll see
some of that at 8:30 Eastern [music]
time. And Savannah this morning looking
elsewhere and the push for affordable
housing.
What we want is affordability to get
better. What the Fanny and Freddy buying
will do is compress the spread between
mortgages and Treasury [music] bills.
So, Fed is currently selling mortgages.
Fanny and Freddy can offset that buying.
So, here's the latest this morning.
President Trump pushing Fanny May and
Freddy Mack to buy $200 billion in
mortgage bonds as part of the White
House's efforts to lower housing costs.
Joining us now from Washington is Lauren
Dazinski. Lauren Dzenski, welcome to the
program. Just set us up here. What has
the president announced and what is he
trying to achieve?
>> Certainly, President Donald Trump
announced that Fanny and Freddy are
going to buy $200 billion worth of
mortgage bonds. This is really all a
part of Trump's affordability push. The
goal here is to push down mortgage rates
and coupled with uh his announcement
that he's going to block institutional
investors from buying single family
homes. This is all in his effort to make
buying a home in America more
affordable. The part that's interesting
to me is that he's planning to talk
about this at Davos later this month,
which um in terms of a domestic
political message might not be the right
venue for it, but for Trump, he's going
to talk about whatever he wants. And
affordability really is the word on his
lips this year so far.
>> Yeah, Lauren, I'm with you and I think
everyone is. The backdrop is a curious
one, but we'll get into that another
time, maybe next week. The Treasury
Secretary's words, I think, are
interesting for me. When he points out
something, we know, but he says it
explicitly that the Fed is currently
selling mortgages, Fanny and Freddy can
offset that buying. Is that something we
need to keep in mind as they're still
going through the interview process to
replace Chairman Pal?
>> Certainly, I think that perhaps this is
a reflection of uh the direction of
rates that Trump may or may not see from
his future Fed chair candidate.
Obviously, this process is a little
opaque and I would not uh want to weigh
in too far uh over my uh pay scale here,
but you know, he's the Fed and the cost
of everything like this is something
that clearly is so important for voters
as they have said at least this past
year and coming into the midterms. Trump
has made very clear that he's thinking
about his political survival. He told
Republicans this week that if
Republicans don't keep control of
Congress, he might get impeached. And so
this this talk about rates and
affordability and everything comes into
that as well.
>> Hey Lauren, it's good to see you. We'll
catch you with you later this morning.
Lauren Tazinski there of Bloomberg down
in Washington. There's one good reason I
can think of for doing this speech in
Davos, Switzerland. When you look at the
agenda for the next two weeks, there's a
panel that week. I think it's on a
Wednesday and it's about jobless growth.
And I think jobless growth at this point
so is so so important for the people
that are attending that get together
because if you think about the themes
they're focused on for years for decades
in Davos Switzland. We haven't focused
enough on just improving people's lives.
It's been focused on these massive big
picture issues the nice to haves and I'm
sure we'll get into that in two weeks
time. And there is a warning I think for
a lot of these executives who are
chasing these big goals and generating
lots of profits is that a lot of people
at the moment are being left behind and
if you don't do something about it
you're going to find out at the ballot
box. You rais a great point. The idea
that he having uh that President Trump
having a fire brand speech with populist
overtones at the key capitalist event of
the the world frankly sends a pretty big
message back home that he's willing to
stand up to power. So you could expect
that there might be a real overtone of
that or you know really that will be the
subtext pretext and uh the text of his
speech.
>> Corporate profits up here, payroll
growth down there and everything in
between is a lot of tension for society.
Joining us now to discuss is Janette
Lowe of Strategus. Janette, wow, what a
week. What a start to the year. We've
seen so many announcements coming out of
the White House and from the president.
What are you focused on and what are you
telling clients?
>> Yeah, this has been quite a a start to
the new year and there's definitely a
lot of changes of foot. I think one of
the things that's really important here
is that obviously, as you guys mentioned
in the last segment, the president is
much more focused on affordability. This
is a midterm election year. He is
looking ahead to the potential loss of
Republican control in the House of
Representatives. So there's going to be
a big focus on things like housing and
electricity prices and things of that
nature with regards to affordability.
The other big story is obviously that in
2025 we had a focus on more austerity.
It was about tariffs. It was about a
delay of what was the tax benefits in
the one big beautiful bill. So, you had
those um changes made, but you didn't
change people's withholding. So, that
will now come out in 2026. The Fed held
off on cutting rates until the end of
last year. You know, have the Fed
cutting rates, and we also see that
we're going to get some financial
deregulation going ahead into this
current year. So, you have a lot of
austerity that was going on in 2025. As
we move into 2026, we see a lot more
austerity with the business and the
consumer tax cuts that are coming with
this financial deregulation and with
more of the monetary policy easing
coming from the Fed. So, we have a lot
of pieces there. And then, of course,
obviously, we're also focused on what's
coming potentially out of the Supreme
Court this morning and what that could
have as an impact on uh Trump's tariff
regime and whether or not that will be
disrupted.
>> Janette, when it comes to the Supreme
Court today, what's your base case that
they will strike down AIPA?
Yeah, I mean that is our base case right
now is that they will um strike down the
AIPA tariffs. So this will not impact
the section 232 tariffs which are things
for steel and aluminum and autos. So all
of those will remain in place. Um but
the tariffs that were imposed as
reciprocal tariffs and the fentinel
tariffs, those do look like they are in
danger here. The big question will be
could there be nuances that comes out of
the Supreme Court? Could they keep the
fentinel tariffs in place because that
represents more of a national emergency
than the reciprocal tariffs? Will they
decide whether or not there needs to be
refunds for companies? Obviously, we've
seen a slew of companies file in the
Court of International Trade to make
sure that they can still get a refund.
That will be important. Um, and whether
or not how long that process might take.
And it may not be that we even know um
right away because it could be that they
were manded back to a lower court. So
there could be a lot of tariff
uncertainty. But one of the things that
we're telling our clients is that
however the court decides the court is
not deciding how Trump can impose tariff
I mean deciding how Trump can impose
tariffs not whether he can do so. So
even if they rule against the
administration, there is a backup plan
that the White House has and essentially
in a couple of months it may take five
or 6 months to get there, but we think
that the administration is going to put
back into place essentially all the
tariffs that we have currently even if
there is an adverse decision for the
administration.
>> Janette, one story we didn't talk about,
but 17 House Republicans joined
Democrats yesterday extending the
Obamacare enhanced subsidies. Do you
think that's actually going to pass in
the S Senate?
Yeah, I mean there obviously has been
some movement towards getting a
bipartisan deal on this. There was the
expectation that the um discharge
petition that was the the move that got
this bill to pass in the House yesterday
um that that was going to come to pass.
Obviously, we don't expect the Senate to
do a clean extension. We do expect them,
if they're going to move this forward,
to come up with some sort of compromise,
maybe a two-year with some reforms
included. Um there definitely does seem
to be some momentum. You've had some
mixed signals. Obviously, Trump said
earlier this week that he was willing
to, you know, provide some flexibility
with regard to abortion and the hide
amendment. So, there does seem that
there's this option to get something
done. And we'll have to kind of see once
this now moves into the Senate.
Obviously, again, with affordability
being a big issue, a lot of the
Republican House members that voted for
this um extension were members who are
vulnerable in the midterm elections. And
so, I do think there is going to be some
concerted effort to at least try to find
a solution as we move forward. Hey
Janette, thank you. Good to catch up.
Janette Lo there of Strategus. It is uh
January 9th. We've got a whole year of
this still to come.
>> It sounds like a lot of fun. It seems
like everyone's got a lot of energy for
this one.
>> Coming up on the program, the former
senior White House trade advisor Kelly
Shaw with Supreme Court tariff opinions
pending. Plus, Danny [music] has your
morning movers from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Equities
just about positive by a tenth of 1% on
the S&P 500. The payrolls report two
hours away as we count it down to the
open up and bow set up for a decent week
of gains actually on the S&P so far just
below those all-time highs we printed on
Tuesday on the NASDAQ 100 positive
[music] by 210. The Russell doing nicely
recently as well up by 0.2% for the
small caps. Turn to the bond market at
the very front end of the yield curve.
two-year bond your tire for a fourth
[music] consecutive session just
bleeding a little bit higher but still
anchored around 350 35051 yield tied by
two basis points the 10 year at 41850
I'll ask a question that Brammo would
really like what's more important this
morning jobs at 830 or potentially
Supreme Court opinions a little bit
later
>> Supreme Court opinion a little bit later
because right now [music] people have
such skepticism and exhaustion around
data roulette that essentially whatever
comes out will get nullified in terms of
skepticism and overlays if it is a
significant ificant number that does
surprise markets in any capacity. I
could be wrong of course. However, the
fact that AIPA could potentially be
overturned by the Supreme Court. We
don't know whether those rulings will
come out to me indicates a potential
black swan moment for people who have
been counting on this revenue to really
support the balance sheet of [music] the
the United States.
>> I agree. We could see tremendous amount
of chaos for this administration as they
try to line up the next legal avenues to
make sure they keep tariffs in place,
but also for companies. Remember,
[music] if you did not file a litigation
with the trade court, there is potential
that even if I strikes this down, you
will not get your refund. [music] So, a
lot of companies actually might be taken
aback and on the back foot when it comes
to this and they are not prepared for
potentially to [music] reap the money
they are owed.
>> So, when we're thinking about where
surprises come from, you got to think
about what we're priced for. Aren't we
priced [music] for that outcome at the
moment? Wouldn't the bigger surprise be
that actually it was held [music] up and
we keep these tariffs? You know, I'm
laughing to myself because I think
Steven Major nailed it when he said you
could totally change your narrative
based on the headlines and you come in
and maybe it's two basis points away
from it. In other words, you're not
going to necessarily see big moves
because everything seems to cancel
itself out and nothing [music] seems to
matter.
>> And also, we're just going to start
putting in instead of IPA 338, [music]
122s, 232s. There will be tariffs.
>> I think Steve just wants to break out
this very tight range on a 10-year bond
yield. We're right in it at the moment
for $11850 at the top end of that very
tight range to start the year. Let's
send to foreign exchange. Quite a week
for the dollar. The best week since
November and another week of gains,
[music] another week of dollar strength.
Euro dollar down to about 116 so far
this morning. That currency pair
negative by around a tenth [music] of
1%. As we c you down to the cash open,
let's get you some mornings. Lots to
talk about. Danny has more. Hey Danny.
>> John, you you took my words. It's
already shaping up to be a very busy
morning. Announced less than 30 minutes
ago. Meta signing a multi-gawatt power
nuclear deal. This will mean that Meta
becomes the biggest buyer of nuclear
energy among all of its hyperscaler
peers. [music] It's going to be buying
that energy from already existing
nuclear companies like Vistra, like Olo.
So, you can see those shares both
surging in the pre-market uh trade
nearly 20% [music]
for Ollo. Uh elsewhere this morning,
we're also seeing all the mortgage
related companies. Those are also
surging the pre-market after Trump uh
yesterday saying that he's directing
Fanny and Freddy to buy $200 billion
worth of mortgage back bonds. You're
also seeing those rally this morning,
too. All part of an affordability push.
The president saying that it would help
lower costs uh for mortgages. So,
Rocket, Loan Deposit, Open Door
Technologies, all moving [music] in the
case of loan uh deposit up uh depot up
18.4%. [music]
Finally, some more Trump related movers
this morning. Uh the president tweeted
putting out on Truth Social. Uh that
Intel that he had a meeting with Luke
Bhutan [music] and it went well. They're
making good progress. Again, the uh
administration has been committed
[music] to taking a 10% stake in Intel.
Right now it's about 5.5% but anyway,
Intel up 2.7% [music]
in the pre-market. John
>> Danny, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Danny in the next hour.
Sometimes you have to take pause [music]
and just reflect how many of those
individual stocks are moving on
presidential announcements.
>> It's it's really quite unbelievable. I
mean, if you think about the oil majors,
if you think about the defense
contractors and what's been going on
there, if you think about the mortgage
uh builders, the mortgage providers,
what's going on there? And then if you
take a look at a couple of random tech
companies that might come into play, I
mean, how do you get involved in this as
an investor? It just really raises a lot
of questions. Intel closed down
yesterday because as soon as the
president put out that truth, [music] I
checked the stock and then in the
aftermarket trading it was up 2%. And
there is skepticism and you see this a
lot on financial Twitter. Are there
people that are privy and aware to this
information [music] and then using it to
their advantage?
>> Yeah, it's not good. Let's put it that
way. We'll have more on that a little
bit later on our radar this morning. The
Supreme [music] Court issuing its first
opinions of the year today, including a
potential landmark ruling on President
Trump's Liberation Day tariffs. Justices
will decide if the White House bypass
Congress to unconstitutionally tax
trade. Elsewhere, nearly 20 oil
executives gathering at the White House
today. Industry leaders meeting with
President Trump to discuss Venezuela's
oil production. The lineup including
representatives from Chevron, Exxon, and
Kono Phillips. And finally, President
Trump also issuing a warning to Iran of
a nationwide protest. Trump saying the
US will quote hit them very hard if
authorities begin killing protesters.
Iran is restricting internet access with
thousands taken to the streets across
the country.
>> So a big question here about whether
President Trump is involved in this with
some social media. This is what actually
Kmeni is is arguing. On the flip side,
it does seem like there is this ground
swell of support of people protesting
and trying to overturn this regime.
Look, when we were talking with Amos
Hawkstein, he said this was the next hot
spot and actually some of the success in
Venezuela would just engender the US and
Israel to go in and potentially bomb
Iran. So, a lot of people are saying, is
this the pretext for them to do that?
The one thing I will say on the military
side, the defense posture in the Middle
East hasn't changed just yet. And that
would have to change if we were going to
go back into Iran, if the president was
going to take some sort of military
action. I think what is important to
notice though, we do see Iranian
authorities frequently try to do this.
They shut down the internet. They shut
down your ability to make phone calls
and phone access when they are trying to
quell protesters. So no surprise there
that we seeing this sort of blackout in
Iran. We should note this is though the
biggest since 2022 against the
Ayatollah. He's 86 years old. But in
2022 it didn't work. So the big question
is will it work this time?
>> That is the hot spot on the map at the
moment. Let's turn back to trade. The
Supreme Court sent to hand down opinions
on the legality of President Trump's
tariff agenda. A ruling could come as
soon as today, forcing the White House
to recalibrate its approach to tariffs
while refunding potentially over $100
billion. Joining us now to discuss is
the former senior White House trade
advisor, Kellyanne Shaw. Kellyanne,
welcome back to the program. Now, of
course, we don't know if we'll actually
get this decision later on this morning,
but overall, what are you expecting?
Well, good morning and and certainly
everyone is waiting with baited breath
to see if the one in9 case that comes
out today is in fact going to be the
AIPA tariff case. Um, but what would
expect to happen is for everyone to take
a moment and digest what the court has
to say both on the private sector side
as well as the government side. And in
fact, I wouldn't necessarily expect the
president to announce his plan B right
away. I think the administration would
need time to figure out what options are
available to the president, tee it up to
him for a decision and we could see
something come say next week.
>> So when it comes to what options he does
have available, I talk about these
sections all the time. Can you actually
walk us through what is going to be the
most likely scenario you could see
coming out of USR?
>> Sure. And and the administration has
talked a lot about this, the fact that
tariffs are going to be part of the
president's strategy. They're not
walking away from their tariff program.
And some of the other options that they
have legally include the numbers that
you listed earlier, Anmarie. So section
122, which is really about balance of
payments. That gives the president the
authority to impose tariffs of up to 15%
for a period of 5 months, at which point
Congress needs to vote to keep those
tariffs in place. You also have section
338 of the Trade Act of 1930. It's a
statute that's never been used and
hasn't really been threatened since the
1940s. That would arguably give the
president the authority to impose
tariffs of up to 50%. So he could
effectively replicate the tariffs he has
on every country overnight and reimpose
those under 338. But again, it hasn't
been used in its almost 100year history.
So not a lot of precedent there. He
could also use the sectoral tariffs. So
these section 232 tariffs like the
steel, aluminum, pharmaceuticals,
semiconductor tariffs to try to do a
product byproduct approach. I think
that's pretty messy. Uh and then you
could also do individual country
investigations under what's called
section 301. And those are the tariffs
that we currently have in place on
China. We've got an open investigation
on Brazil. He doesn't have a limit if he
uses 301 in terms of tariff levels. But
the challenge is those investigations
are going to take at least 5 or 6 months
to complete. So if he does that on a
country bycountry basis, which is what a
lot of people in Washington suspect he
might do, the real question is what
tariffs are going to take place in the
meantime, what's the bridging authority?
So we could see kind of a mix and match
of some of these measures.
>> Do you expect countries to be lining up
once again if the Supreme Court strikes
down AIPA and they're preparing for the
president to have to go back to the
negotiating table?
Well, look, I I think that part of this
will be a country bycountry decision,
and I suspect that most of our trading
partners will honor the commitments in
the deals that they've made or they will
just, you know, be okay with the status
quo in the intervening months because
there is that threat almost assuredly
the president's going to reimpose these
tariffs under some authority or another.
And so, there might be some deviations.
You could see Europe, for example, that
still hasn't passed that implementing
law to reduce its own tariffs as part of
the deal that it agreed to way back in
July. I've heard on the European side
that they may not move forward if the
president in fact loses his AIPA case,
which would put us back in a trade war
with Europe. So, we could see some
examples like that, but I think for the
most part, countries are going to hold
to their commitments.
>> Kellyanne, the reason why it's always
great to hear from you is because you've
been on both sides of this, right?
You've been in the White House. You've
done done these negotiations and you
currently talk to a lot of corporate
clients and others to give them advice
about what to expect. I suspect that
there is a degree of exhaustion after a
year of uncertainty and that a lot of
people are not looking forward to
another cocktail of tariffs. If this is
the year where people are supposed to
rebuild their supply chains, how does a
new uh overframe overview of tariffs
potentially complicate that?
>> Yeah, I I think that everyone is
exhausted. I I think I heard from about
three clients in total over the break um
just by sheer exhaustion. So you know
what does it look like this year? Last
year was about breaking the global
trading system, changing the way we
trade with every country on earth for
every product on earth. I think this
year from the administration's
perspective, it's about rebuilding and
re-calibrating.
Meaning if you took a global
sledgehammer to the the trading system,
you patched it back together in 2025.
2026 is about fine-tuning it, making
adjustments where necessary, but not
these big tariff swings. Now, of course,
the Supreme Court case is the elephant
in the room, and that could disrupt the
plans for 2026 depending on which way
the court comes out. But I do think
particularly towards the second half of
this year, we're going to see more
recalibrations as opposed to these giant
swings. I think the tariffs are pretty
much where the president wants them
right now. Um, and it's more about
adjustment.
>> Kelly, we've written stories at
Bloomberg about how many companies have
lined up and put the paperwork in to try
to get some of the refunds should the
AIPA tariffs be overturned. How many
that you talked to have plans to start
that groundwork just to get a foot in
the door to start claiming their refunds
that haven't yet done so?
Well, what I'd say is we are seeing
cases filed every day, but the CIT
basically told the private sector, don't
file any more cases. We are not going to
hear any cases until this Supreme Court
decision comes out. And that's on the
basis of the government saying you don't
need to get in line. Um, this had to do
with this concept of liquidation that
after 314 days, those entries that you
um uh go through that formal entry
process, they liquidate after that
period of time. So this litigation, the
Costco litigation and others was really
about trying to suspend that period of
time. Um the government said that's not
necessary and on that basis the court
said don't file anymore. So I I do think
we're going to have to wait and see what
the Supreme Court says to ultimately see
where things go on refunds and what
companies need to do. So there's a lot
of unknowns right now. I do think when
we get a decision, there will be a ton
of questions. What's the
administration's plan be? What does the
tariff landscape look like? And what's
the process for refunds? And those are
all big black boxes at the moment.
>> Kellyanne, stay close. We might be
speaking again on Monday. It's good to
see you. Kellyanne Shaw there, the
former senior White House trade advisor.
You talked about everyone being
exhausted. I thought we meant to come
into a new year energized. Energized for
the new year. We've all had the same
outlooks. And when it comes to the
equity outlooks, tariffs barely got a
mention. Barely a footnote in so many
equity outlooks for 26
>> to the degree that they have any mention
at all. This is the year where you have
more certainty. This is the year where
all of the uh tariff noise that we heard
in 2025 was supposed to end. Do we get a
decision starting maybe at 10:00 a.m.
Eastern today that overturns that
particular projection? And the president
says he's going to talk about housing at
Davos. If the Supreme Court strikes down
AIPA, he's going to be talking a lot
more than housing at Davos. He's going
to be talking about reestablishing
global trade and the fact that he is
going to have to go back into his
toolbox to renegotiate some some of
these deals with these countries.
>> Have to rewrite that speech several more
times. Right. Can you find me one person
who's not exhausted coming into 2026?
>> I can't find him.
>> If if you can, please write in.
>> I think the president, he was doing a
Sean Hannity show interview last night
and then 4:19 a.m. he was on Truth
Social.
>> He's a beast. He just keeps going.
Futures positive by about a tenth of 1%.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahi with more. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. Russia says it struck western
Ukraine using an intermediate range
ballistic missile known as Orishnik.
[music] Ukraine's foreign minister
describing the attack near the NATO
border as a grave threat to European
security. Russia also launched hundreds
of drones targeting Kev and the
surrounding area. Meanwhile, here a
group of House Republicans breaking with
party leaders to join Democrats in
extending expired Obamacare subsidies.
The House passing [music] the three-year
extension 230 to 196. The measure facing
steep Republican opposition in the
Senate, [music] though defectors hope it
pressures lawmakers toward a bipartisan
compromise.
And TSMC's fourth quarter revenue
topping estimates, reinforcing hopes for
sustained global AI spending this year.
The [music] beat by Nvidia's goto chip
maker was boosted by demand for its data
center chips. TSMC will report full
quarterly earnings on a forecast on
capital spending next week. That's your
[music] Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in the
next hour in about 30 minutes time. Up
next, running risk with policy.
>> We're still materially above neutral in
my mind. Every month we come in and the
unemployment rate ticks up a little bit
and the inflation, you know, the
inflation data sort of seem to be doing
a little bit better. We're running
unnecessary risks on the labor market by
being so restrictive.
>> A conversation up next with Claudia S of
New Century Advisors [music] live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
>> [music]
>> The jobs number 1 hour and 42 minutes
away. The estimate in our survey about
70K. Big range. If you look through the
estimates [music] that we collect here
at Bloomberg, the high is 155, the low
is 23,000. And if you go through some of
the commentary, the focus really is on
things like the [music] unemployment
rate as opposed to the headline payrolls
number. And if the unemployment rate
comes in, there's just an expectation
this Fed isn't going to do much at month
end.
>> Yeah, there is a feeling that really uh
January 28th hinges [music]
on that unemployment rate getting down
to either 4.5% or 4.4%. That means no,
they're not going to cut rates. If it is
4.6%, 6% 4.7% that's almost a green
[music] light saying please go
regardless it's going to be a split
decision.
>> Here are the scores this morning.
Futures positive by about a tenth of 1%
around session highs were up by 0.25 on
the NASDAQ. On the Russell up by.18 in
the bond market lots of conversations
about this very very tight trading range
on a 10-year maturity. Yields are higher
by two basis points. The 10-year 41850
[music]
this morning and the surveillance this
morning running risk with policy.
We're still materially above neutral in
my mind [music] and there's not really a
reason to be materially above neutral if
the labor market is in a weakening path
and inflation is an underlying inflation
is already running close to our target.
Every month we come in and the
unemployment rate ticks up a little bit
and the inflation, you know, the
inflation data sort of seem to be doing
a little bit better. We're running
unnecessary risks on the labor market by
being so restricted.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Investors counting down to the payrolls
report out in less than two hours time.
The median estimate in our survey coming
in at 70,000. The unemployment rate
expected to fall back to 4.5%. Claudia S
of New Centry Advisers writing, "The
main problem in the labor market is the
lack of hiring. That may not spiral into
a recession, but it can put upward
pressure on the unemployment rate."
Claudia joins us now for more. Claudia,
a warm welcome back to the program. It's
good to see you. Let's talk about what
we could see at 8:30 Eastern time and
how important that unemployment rate is.
>> Right. You know, any question about do
we have a problem in the labor market,
the answer is going to start with what's
happening with the unemployment rate.
And it's really much bigger than does it
tick back down to five 4.5%, does it
hold, does it like it really is looking
at the broader trend. We've seen the
unemployment rate moving up since the
middle of the year. We've seen the
unemployment rate moving up over the
past two and a half years at a very
gradual pace, right? So, there really is
an issue. And again, we don't need to
see the layoffs to have the unemployment
rate come up. It's just this very low
level of hiring and we have not gotten
any indication that that's even
stabilized at this point. Like that's
really the center of the problem right
now.
>> Claudia, you say that it's clear that we
have an issue. What is that issue
especially given the fact that this
isn't a monolithic uh jobs market.
You're seeing some pockets of real pain
and other pockets of real strength and
wage growth.
>> Right. Well, I would say that we do the
the slowdown in hiring is quite
broad-based and we see that in the
slowdown in job creation. We have a much
more concentrated, you know, health
care, education. These are ones that the
not like cyclical parts of the labor
market really are pulling a lot of the
weight in terms of job creation at this
point. So, but you are correct that that
it the pain in the labor market has like
started to accumulate. If you have low
hiring, that's going to hit groups of
workers like young adults coming out
into the labor market. That's where
we're seeing some really, you know,
large increases in unemployment and, you
know, not participating and that, you
know, so the pain is not equally
distributed. But I would say that we're
seeing a broad swath of lower hiring. So
the the concern is out there broadly. I
don't think we can point to one policy
or one event that's really holding back
the labor market. It's something much
broader. At this point,
>> it seems like everyone's focused on the
jobs report that we get in about an hour
and a half. It seems like people are
talking less about the CPI report next
Tuesday. It seems like employment is the
primary mandate right now for the Fed
and it sort of eaked out inflation as
the main concern. Do you agree with
that? Do you think that's appropriate?
>> Well, the the labor market was
definitely what pulled the Fed into
action late in the year, right? And they
cut 75 basis points on the funds rate on
risk to the labor market. So the Fed has
stepped in. They may not have done
enough, right? We may see more cuts
because of the labor market going
forward into this year, but really
they've they've put some effort into
easing, you know, the pressure on the
labor market. I think what's going to be
really interesting early this year, we
have some additional fiscal support
coming online. It wasn't, you know, the
one big beautiful bill wasn't looking
forward to weakness in the labor market,
but we do have, you know, tax relief
coming for households and importantly
for businesses. you know, that may be,
you know, the support that gets the
hiring rate going, but it does give me
some pause that right now the problem is
not a lack of economic activity and
demand. Like, we see plenty of consumer
spending and business investment.
Businesses aren't hiring. So, like, what
is it that solves that problem? That's,
I think, going to be a really big
question. And the Fed's going to want to
see how this plays out before they do a
lot more. I think at this point
>> if consumers are worried about their
jobs and they get these refund checks,
does that mean potentially they're going
to hold on to them or do you think
they're going to go out there and spend
[sighs and gasps]
>> so it's it'll probably be a mixed bag.
The at this point we definitely can see
in the consumer surveys and the New York
Fed had another one out uh yesterday
where people are brought they they
really understand it's tough to get a
job like if you lose a job the chances
you assess of getting a job they're
they're down at very low levels. people
still don't see very high, you know,
chances of losing their job, right?
Which I think, you know, people are
seeing the low, higher, low fire
environment. So, I don't think that
you've got this level of anxiety right
now. We are set up if if the layoffs
were to pick up, if you even had some
isolated sectors doing more firing, that
could change the picture and really have
the anxiety pick up. But otherwise, I
think I mean, a lot of experience shows
us if you put money in the hands of
people who've needed a little extra
cash, they're going to spend it, right?
So, I think there will be some push to
demand, but is that what is holding back
hiring? That's what's not as clear
because this just doesn't look like the
typical business cycle. You wrote in
your Substack, the Fed may let bygones
be bygones in their inflation targeting
approach to monetary policy. Has the Fed
just absolutely accepted that three is
now the new two.
>> Well, so when I met with bygones is the
Fed doesn't they really like the 2%
target is what they have. They don't
look at like a price level, right? and
try to get the price level back on track
by have wanting inflation below 2%.
Right? So, they're looking at not the
price level over time, but at this uh
the inflation rate, I still think the
Fed is very committed to having the 2%
target, but it's clear with, you know,
them cutting with inflation still
elevated, they are not willing to risk a
recession over squeezing out that last
bit of inflation. And especially when I
think there are some good stories about
why there's still some temporary lift to
inflation. So, it's not that they've
given up on their inflation target, but
the Fed is paying close attention to
what's happening at the labor market at
the same time, but it does slow down the
Fed's reaction to anything we see in the
labor market because they have a dual
mandate. So, I think that's where just
seeing what happens to the unemployment
rate today is not enough to tell you
what the Fed is going to do at the end
of January because they the Fed is
paying a lot of attention to that CPI
report next week, too.
>> We're trying to make it simple. Don't
spoil it, Claudia. It's good to see you.
Claudia, [laughter]
New Century Advisors. Claudia, thank
you. Thank you very much, Mike Gapen and
Morgan Stanley making it simple. 4.6%
would keep the Fed on track to cut this
month.
>> That seems to be what a lot of people
are expecting that if you do get that
creeping up confirmed, then January 28th
is a go. [music]
>> Claudia is right. It's a complex moment.
>> Of course,
>> it's more than just about one data
point. That's for sure. Up next, we'll
catch up with Priz [music] of JP Morgan,
Bloomberg's Lauren, Kate Mo of City
Wealth, Dan Stroven of Goldman Sachs.
The second dare of Bloomberg
surveillance on this payrolls Friday up
next.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Coming into 2026, there's obviously been
a lot of optimism.
>> I like the momentum of the market.
>> There's no bears when it comes to
strategists.
>> I have a tough time seeing meaningful
broadening in the US equity markets.
>> I think the long-term trend is quite
positive. [music]
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 shaping up as
follows as we head towards a decent week
of [music] gains just off alltime highs
printed earlier this week. Futures
positive by a tenth of 1% on the S&P on
the [music] NASDAQ up by 0.2. What a 24
hours ahead of us. What a week ahead as
well. Uh, we've got payrolls later on
this morning, 8:30 Eastern time. Then
we've got Supreme Court opinions
potentially on the president's
liberation day terrorists later on this
morning as well. Sneak peek of next
week, CPI [music] and Tuesday, bank
earnings beginning as well.
>> Yeah, the idea of the read from the
corporate world in terms of what kind of
health [music] you see in the underlying
economy is going to be really key. Look,
we're talking about all the headline
roulette that's coming out of Washington
DC. The proof is going to be in the
pudding when it comes to the economy and
[music] whether the economy is chugging
along and whether companies foresee that
continuing throughout the year. If so,
these gains will continue and a lot of
people will be able to look through the
noise with a bit more conviction. And it
comes at a time when this White House is
really laser focused on the midterm
elections and this message [music] of
affordability. Yesterday, you have the
president saying he's going to tell his
representatives uh the FHFA to buy
[music] more when it comes to mortgage
back loans and bonds. They have already
been doing this and I was told by our
source last night they're going to take
this up to the cap. At [music] the same
time today's meeting with oil
executives, he has a price target in
sight for oil and that's $50 a barrel
and he thinks he can bring these
executives on board to go into Venezuela
to help that. And as Sean Hannity
interview, this is how the president
thinks. He [music] thinks oil is the
basis for everything when it comes to
affordability and inflation. He was
saying it's part of the reason why, you
know, you put donuts on a truck, you
need oil to get those donuts from point
A to point B. [music] This is how he's
thinking ahead of November. Can you
imagine the communication war rooms that
the big oil executives have been in over
the past few days? The pressure on them
going into this meeting. Do you think
these guys want to allocate big [music]
numbers right now with crude where it
is?
>> Well, not only with crude where it is,
but also the potential of losing their
investment should there be a change of
leadership in the US or elsewhere. And
we already saw that back two decades
[music] ago. Uh Exxon still trying to
recoup billions of dollars. Kico
Phillips, same thing. So at what point
are we looking at companies that already
have been [music] burned but who also
talking about those war rooms don't want
to get on the wrong side of this
president. That's accurate. But at the
same time those companies because they
knew that they were shut out for
Venezuela decided to go allocate capital
elsewhere. Exxon all over Guyana now
which right now looks like one of the
[music] best bets because in a
geopolitical standpoint it's much safer.
US shell bosses, according to the
Financial Times, basically say that this
administration is putting [music]
American output, which is close to 14
million barrels a day, on the chopping
block. Quote, we're talking about this
ad administration screwing us over
again. That is the feeling going into
this White House meeting.
>> It's a delicate time for that sector.
Let's put it that way. That meeting
taking place at 2:30 Eastern time later
on this afternoon. Coming up this hour,
premier of JP Morgan as Wall Street
awaits a fresh labor print. Kate more of
city wealth remaining bullish through
the noise and Dan Stroven and Gman Sachs
as President Trump meets with big oil
executives. We begin this hour with
stocks inching higher ahead of key jobs
data. Prior of JP Morgan looking for a
cleaner read, writing the Bloomberg
consensus of 70,000 and a decline in
unemployment should mean the Goldilocks
market pricing of low hiring, low firing
can continue. Pria joins us now for
more. Pria, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Can the rate cuts continue?
>> Yes. I mean, if we get the the Bloomberg
consensus, does the Fed cut in January?
probably not unless we get a uh you know
some big uh much lower inflation. But
look at the market pricing. Market's not
pricing for the Fed to likely cut in in
Jan. The market has though two cuts
priced in for the rest of the year. I
think that pricing can remain because
when we're looking at the totality of
data we're still not seeing hiring.
Nothing in the fiscal stimul
in the one big beautiful bill is
essentially saying that the that
companies are going to start to uh
increase hiring. Look at this last week.
Look at all all the headlines that we're
getting. Policy uncertainty is still
high. So if hiring stays low and
inflation comes down, in our view, you
know, you look at inflation across the
board, whether it's shelter inflation,
whether it's wage inflation, it's all
heading lower. As inflation comes down,
I think the Fed is going to say, okay,
we can start to cut, you know, a little
bit more. I think it the the bar to cut
rates is higher, but we do think that
the Fed later this year is going to cut
one or two more times. So I think that
market pricing of that terminal rate
stays. That's essentially what that
10-year is is essentially banking on.
>> What is going to wake up this bond
market? This very snoozy, rangebound,
sleepy Treasury market.
>> I think it's great. I mean, interest
rate wall has been extremely low. I
think the president is focused on the
tenure. He's told us that before. I
think what can wake the the volatility
up would be essentially if we get
additional fiscal stimulus, not one big
beautiful bill. if you get tariff
dividends. Now, I'm not even sure post
AIPA that the tariff revenues will be as
high. We do think that if AIPA is struck
down that the president's going to, you
know, essentially come up with um AIPA
like tariffs uh under a different name.
But, you know, if there's additional
fiscal stimulus, yes, then rates can
rise. All those deficit hawks can come
out. I think that's an opportunity. If
you do get interest rates moving higher,
any bare steepening in the curve, we
would look to fade. I think the 10 year
in our base case 375 to 4 and a/4 I
think that's the range we should expect
for this year. If hiring continues to be
low and firing starts to pick up I think
that's the tail risk here. I think the
the asymmetry in the bond market is
rates are going to go lower. I think
that's what nobody's talking about.
Remember last year all the narratives
around the deficit sell America that's
all way behind us. I think now we have
to think about the tenure being in a
narrow range. Housing affordability is a
focus and the risk is that if actually
we start to see the layoffs then rates
can go lower.
>> So you think that the best part of the
yield curve right now is the 10 year.
>> We do like the the 5 to 10 year part of
the rate curve. I think the front end
starts to get really tricky. You have to
have a clear view on inflation in the
next month on on the unemployment rate.
But when you're looking at the fiveyear
10 year I think that's the part number
one that impacts the housing market.
That's the one that the president's
focused on. that's the one that prices
in the Fed to slowly get closer to that
3% terminal rate. So I think that's the
one that we have more conviction in that
is likely to stay in a low range and uh
you know I think that's what you own
particularly if you own risk assets if
you own stocks if you own credit your
biggest risk here is that the economy
actually struggles because there's so
much complacency about this goldilocks
continuing
>> that makes sense to me the hedge against
some kind of falling off a cliff of the
economy or significant deterioration.
What makes less sense to me is that the
Fed has room to cut rates because
inflation is lower and that that will
naturally bring the entire yield curve
lower because of the wealth effect
because this is going to boost asset
prices that much more which will only
encourage people to spend that much more
and you're going to see inflation in
some of these higherend items which is
really what's been driving some of this.
I mean how do you square that?
>> So I think the K-shaped economy the
K-shaped market continues. So to your
point, spending and you know if people
are getting a refund check, they're
going to spend it. Asset price inflation
can stay high, but what we're looking
at, what the Fed cares about, their dual
mandate is PCE and full employment. That
PCE number can on on inflation can
continue to head lower because that's a
function of shelter inflation on how you
know housing, you know, beyond housing
housing x uh x-ousing service inflation.
Look at those numbers. They are slowly
heading lower. the tariff effect is
going to go away from inflation by the
middle of this year. So I think you know
if you think about the rate cuts from
the Fed, it was inflation in 2024. It
was the unemployment rate in 2025. This
year you've got two parts through which
the Fed can cut. There's that inflation
part. As inflation heads lower, not
asset price inflation, but PCE which the
Fed cares about. As we get close to to
maybe it's 2.5, the Fed will feel more
confident. the hawks that have been very
vocal that inflation's above target.
They're going to then step back and say,
"Okay, we can maybe neutral is closer to
three and not three and a half." I think
that's the debate we're going to have
all year. What's neutral?
>> Can we get your reaction to the
president last night saying he's giving
special attention to the housing market
and telling his representatives to buy
$200 billion of mortgage back securities
and home loans?
>> I think it's great. Uh now, we don't we
we don't need um you know, just one
thing for housing. Housing is an
extremely complicated issue. Uh if they
need to fix housing, they need to fix
the demand side, the supply side. I was
a little nervous if all we were going to
get was on the supply front. Now I think
the president with this latest bit and
this does not need Congress. Now the 200
billion is interesting. That's the
amount that the agencies can buy
relative to the cap. That cap can also
move higher. I think once they do the
200, the cap can be moved by the FHFA.
And then
>> I'm glad you brought that up because the
cap is 450 billion. and they've already
been accumulating billions. So, this
puts us pretty much right at that cap.
But I spoke to a source last night and
said,
>> "Will the Treasury and FHFA tried to
lift the cap?" And they said no. So, if
this just ends at the 450 billion, does
it really do much for the housing
market?
>> Well, I think if it's 450, it's 200
billion of net demand. And if you think
about the mortgage market, the marginal
buyer for mortgages is really asset
managers. It used to be the GSC's
pre208. Some of us were around back
then. and I used to cover the agencies.
Then it was the Fed, then it was US
banks. And now if you look at it, the
banks are saying after SVB, well, we're
not going to touch this. I think that's
where the announcements announcement is
interesting. You bring a new marginal
buyer in, other investors that might
have stayed away will say, okay, the
government's behind this. The agencies
have the ability to buy. I think we can
step in. But I will say, you know, you
ask about whether that's important.
Mortgage spreads can compress. But
ultimately, if you look at the mortgage
rate, it's the 10-year that's the much
bigger component. We have to keep the
10-year within that range. If the
president's focused on housing
affordability, keep the 10-year 4%, 350
to 4, keep it there, and then get those
mortgage spreads. We're talking 10 basis
points. So, you know, I get excited. I'm
a bond person. Every basis point is very
important. But I mean to get 100, you're
not getting a 100 basis points in
mortgage rates because of this, but it
does help keep W low and then get some
mortgage spread tightening through.
>> This might just be the appetizer, not
the main course. Is the Federal Reserve
going to come along for the line along
for the ride along uh new leadership?
>> Um well, so no, I don't think the Fed's
going to do QE. I mean, there's talk
around the Fed doing QE. No, the Fed is
going
>> The Fed's working against this effort at
the moment, aren't they? Well, they are
letting the portfolio run off, but I
think what the Fed did in December,
which was to say that let's make sure
the plumbing works. I think that's
important. They didn't let the repo
market freeze up. So, yes, they're
letting mortgages run off. The GSC's
will easily offset that. I think on the
Fed, what we really want is a credible
independent Fed. And I think we don't
know who the next Fed chair is going to
be, but if you look at what the Fed's
done over the last few months, they have
reasserted that they are independent.
This is a committee. The chair is
important, but it's one vote. I think
the Fed is doing I don't know if it was
if that was an intended uh reason for
them to be as vocal, but they're telling
us that they care about their dual
mandate irrespective of the chair. I
think they're doing their part. They're
keeping that term premium lower,
inflation risk premium. Look at what's
priced into the break even market. It's
low. The market's not concerned about
Fed independence, rightly so.
>> It's pretty anchored at the moment,
that's for sure. Pri's going to stick
with us. Priz of JP Morgan as a
journalist. You've got to ask the
question. I mean, you've got to wonder
what the interviews have been like and
what questions have been asked of
potential Fed candidates.
>> Literally, people have told us on this
show that they should do QE and that
they will do QE in order to get mortgage
rates lower. So, it's not only a
legitimate question. I think it's
clearly in the ether. It's not priced
into the market, which I think is
telling that currently market
participants do not believe that to be
the base case.
>> I know the first question the president
asks, the only one he really cares about
is will you cut interest rates? But I
can imagine the follow-up is what else
could you do to help the housing market?
and he's saying that this is a housing
emergency and this is really for him
such a focal point going into November.
I imagine it is somewhat part of the
conversation.
>> One to watch later this year maybe.
Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahihara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. US officials are discussing
sending checks to Greenlanders as part
of a bid to convince them to secede from
Denmark. Reuters reporting they're
considering payments ranging from
$10,000 to a h 100,000 per resident. In
an interview with the New York Times
published today, Trump said ownership of
Greenland is psychologically important
[music] to him. Meanwhile, Paramount
Skyance reaffirming its hostile bid to
buy Warner Brothers Discovery, arguing
it quote represents the best path
forward for Warner Brothers shareholders
and provides a more certain path to
completion. [music]
Paramount saying the Netflix offer is
inferior because it plans to give
investors stock in a cable TV spin-off
that it deems worthless. And Oregon
officials calling for calm after federal
agents shot and wounded [music] two
people in Portland yesterday. The
Department of Homeland Security said a
border patrol agent fired a defensive
shot at a vehicle after the driver
weaponized it and drove off. The
shooting came a day after an ICE officer
shot and killed a woman in [music]
Minneapolis. That Chubenberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update
and more from Yahihara later this hour.
Up next on the program, bracing for a
ruling. We're getting rich because of
tariffs. By the way, without tariffs, we
would be this country would be in such
trouble as they were for many years.
>> Such a big thing in the Supreme Court
right now. The decision of the Supreme
Court is a very important thing.
>> We might get that ruling later this
morning. Up next, Bloomberg's Lauren
Desenski [music] live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[music]
Live from New York City, welcome to the
program. The jobs number a little more
than an hour away. That comes at 8:30
Eastern time. Just got some data from
Bank of America. The [music] consumer
checkpoint report. One of my favorites.
This is for the month of December. The
K-shaped economy and consumer patterns
persist, but the divide isn't widening.
We'll put some numbers on that. Higher
income households saw [music] a 2.4%
year-over-year increase in card
spending. Lower income households saw
just 0.4%
year-over-year growth. And that 2
percentage point gap between the two
groups. Pretty [music] stable over the
past 6 months.
>> Yeah. The other interesting aspect from
this report, and I agree with you, it's
really interesting, highlights that even
though people were being choiceful or
picky or being very aware of the prices,
[music]
they were buying more goods. It wasn't
just an increase in spending because of
the ticket items, it was the volume of
goods that actually [music] was being
purchased. Also, people were actually
proactive. They bought before November,
[music] and that's also something that
it really accelerated and then fell off
heading into the holidays. So,
congratulations for getting ahead of the
game, everybody.
>> Some front loading. Exactly.
>> Some real front loading. Thanks to Bank
of America for that. We'll get earnings
from them later on this month, next
week, I believe. Equity futures at the
moment then positive by a [music] tenth
of 1% on the S&P up by 0.2 on the
NASDAQ. Very tight trading ranges in the
bond market. We can talk about [music]
in just a moment. Twos, tens, and 30s.
Twos anchored around 350. 10's at the
top end of a recent range, 419 [music]
on a 10-year bond yield this morning,
higher by two basis points. And this
morning bracing for [music] a ruling.
>> We're getting rich because of tariffs,
by the way. I hope everyone understands
that. They hate to report. We're going
to have over $650
billion dollars poured into our country
or coming in shortly because of tariffs.
Without tariffs, we would be this
country would be in such trouble as they
were for many years.
>> We have a big decision. Hopefully, we're
going to get the right decision. Such a
big thing in the Supreme Court right
now. The decision of the Supreme Court's
a very important thing.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
future of President Trump's trade agenda
hanging in the balance as we await a
possible Supreme Court decision on the
legality of his global tariffs later on
this morning. Blindberg's Lauren
Dazinski joins us now for more. Lauren,
just frame for us how important these
rulings are potentially later on this
morning.
Certainly, I think the clip package does
a great job of summarizing that nearly
every day, Donald Trump is giving a
defense of his tariffs and to a certain
extent he's speaking to an audience of
one, which is the Supreme Court justices
who really will make or break the fate
of this agenda. They're they're
specifically ruling on the liberation
day tariffs which were announced on uh
April 2nd in that big rose garden event
and markets subsequently tanked because
they were un markets were unhappy with
the announcement and kind of the gravity
of the announcement. At least what we
know so far number one leading to some
of this uncertainty is that we don't
actually know that the decision is going
to come down today. it will happen on a
Supreme Court decision day or opinion
day rather. Um but that might be today.
That might come later next week. So we
don't know. But we also know that the
previous lower court ruling did say that
these tariffs were illegal. Again, these
are the specific Liberation Day tariffs.
There's other tools in the toolkit. But
if we're reading some tea leaves, it may
not necessarily be good for Trump for
these very specific tariffs. Last piece
of what you just said, Lauren, I think
is so important. Forgive me for jumping
in.
>> There are other tools, and that's what I
want to lean on here. I'll give you the
flavor of things on Wall Street, Lauren.
The way people are thinking about it up
here is that ultimately whatever
happens, if it happens later on this
morning, the president's got other means
and ways of achieving the same thing. Is
that the sense of things in Washington?
>> Certainly, it's not necessarily as
sweeping, but there are other tools.
There's the section 301, there's a
section 232. These are the sectoral
tariffs that are have to be more
targeted and more specific as opposed to
these countryspecific tariffs of just
you know China will get x amount tariff
or Canada will get x amount tariffs.
These ones have to you know go after
specific sectors. Uh but Trump does have
other tools and other opportunities to
impose tariffs.
>> Lauren, thanks for being here. We
appreciate it. Lauren Dazinski there of
Bloomberg down in Washington DC still
with us of Hable Pisra of JP Morgan. A
question we've lent on repeatedly over
the past week or so is what is relevant
and what isn't relevant to this market
because that announcement in early April
turned out to be an absolute nothing
burger by the time we got to the end of
the year. What should you be focused on
in 2026? I think you have to be focused
on fundamentals at the end of the day
and the fundamentals last year for
example the reason why we faded all of
that sell America the fundamentals are
that the economy is holding up the
consumer is resilient but hiring is slow
and inflation a key component inflation
is heading lower and that's why from a
rate standpoint that's what's kept
interest rate volatility that low I
think if you get IPA being reversed the
in the immediate reaction might be Oh,
that's a h 100red billion of uh of
revenues that the government was getting
in that have to be potentially refunded.
We have to look at how that those
refunds happen. You know, maybe that can
be slow walk. You have to go through the
courts. But if that's the immediate
reaction, that's a supply shock that the
market might react on. I would fade
that. I would say let's look at
fundamentals. Is hiring picking up?
That's what we're watching. Is there
additional fiscal stimulus that's going
to come in and help demand? If that
doesn't happen, you look at
fundamentals, you look at policy risks,
there are a lot of crosscurrens. I mean,
we've got structural positives, AI
investment, strong private sector
balance sheets, but then there's a
cyclical issue as well of this low uh
hiring. So, you know, as we think about
markets, I think the risk on sentiment
is why credit spreads are tight. That's
why we like owning credit, but we like
those treasury rates as well as sort of
to try and think about a balanced
portfolio. If I were going to put all
that together, I would say maybe fiscal
deficits don't matter anymore. Is that
correct?
>> I don't want to sound complacent. There
is a long-term problem. You know that we
have a long-term issue. I agree on the
deficit. Entitlement is really the only
way to solve that. We saw Doge didn't
really solve that last year. Um, you
know, but I think that's the question of
supply demand meets at a price. Term
premium or how much additional yield we
get from extending out the curve that
has gone up. So investors are earning
more because we have an unsustainable
fiscal uh trajectory. But look at the
rest of the world and and I think uh you
know you look at the rest of the world
that's actually doing more fiscal easing
where central banks might be hiking. The
US is still the place where you've got
the growth and the central bank that's
still potentially going to cut.
>> So you don't really attribute the
outperformance of US treasuries over the
past 12 months to this idea that you
were going to get revenues from tariffs.
Is that correct? That's sort of a
fiction that was tied to some of the
performance. I mean it helped but it was
a tiny amount as a 100red billion. I
think it helped calm some of the sell
America deficit you know the US is going
to default. we calmed some of that down
that there we do have tools you know to
get revenues in but you know no I I took
a lot of what happened last year to be
this narrative around everyone's going
to sell the US to no let's look at the
fundamentals the US is still growing
really well and we've still got the
deepest most liquid capital markets and
as that narrative went away and then we
looked at the fundamentals we realized
okay the unemployment rate is slowly
moving higher the Fed can cut rates and
inflation is you know heading closer to
their target. I think it was it helped,
but I don't think just taking that away,
especially if if you know to our earlier
discussion, it's going to be put right
back on under a different name. I don't
think it should be a big deal beyond
maybe today at 10:00 a.m. If it is,
>> what about a $ 1.5 trillion defense
budget?
>> So, that does I do wonder does Congress
>> put that in the deficit?
>> So, I think that is not priced in. I
don't think the additional 500 billion
is priced in because the view is is
Congress going to allow that. um you
know in an election year I agree that
was a headline if you get another 500
billion if you get tariff dividends the
same tariffs are being used to pay for
OBBA and tariff dividends and
>> lot of double dipping
>> then I think the bond market's going to
say okay we need to get paid a little
bit more to lend money to the US but I
don't think the expectation is that he's
going to get that 500 billion quickly
this year
>> Pria it's good to see you fantastic
framing as always Priz of JP Morgan on
this bond market and how five to $600
billion of extra defense spending is not
priced in right now.
>> It's not priced in to the bond market.
It is being priced into some of the
defense stocks which is sort of
interesting. There's sort of different
messages being felt whether you're in
the equity side or whether you're on the
fixed income side. But to Bria's point,
it has to go through Congress when it
comes to 500 billion. Maybe they're not
going to get all of it. But when you
think about things like the Golden Dome,
the Golden Fleet, they might be able to
get some Republicans and Democrats to
sign up for that.
>> It's a lot of spending down in
Washington. There's more still to come.
I'm sorry to disappoint you if you
wanted some responsible budgets anytime
soon. Yeah, I'm not sure it's happening.
>> I get the emails from the Committee for
a Responsible Budget.
>> And they're getting increasingly
hysterical. Come on, guys. Please care.
Yeah. I mean, other people say it's a
big economy. We can absorb it.
>> It's not happening until the market
forces it. And the market's certainly
not forcing it. That's for sure. The
jobs number 1 hour away. The estimate in
our survey 70K. [music] In just a
moment, we'll catch up with CityWell CIO
Kate Moore with a look at a top risk for
2026. Plus, Danny has your morning
movers. Nuclear stocks jumping [music]
with Meta signing new deals to power AI.
[music]
We're 60 minutes away from the payrolls
report. Two hours away from the cash
open into that futures just about
unchanged on the S&P 500. No drama this
morning. all-time highs earlier on in
the week and we've hit pause on that
rally over the past two sessions or so.
Plenty of disruption coming out of the
White House though and you see that at a
single name level. We'll get to some of
those stories in just a moment. On the
NASDAQ up by 0.15 on a small was the
Russell by2. [music] In the bond market,
what can we do to shake this bond market
out of a very very tight range? Yields
high by two basis points this morning.
The 10-year 41850.
Some of you looking for payrolls. Bremo
is looking for something else. Well,
AIPA and whether we do see some sort of
overruling of the tariffs, although
Prima Misra really just threw a whole
lot of cold water on that thesis, saying
that essentially uh people are going to
look past it and it isn't that
significant. I will say that longer term
based on what we've heard this morning,
if there is a rolling over of the US
economy, that will have the biggest
effect on yields and it is to the
downside. And everyone's just looking
through this because the president
[music] has a number of other legal
tools he can use in his toolbox. one of
them section 338 though he may run into
this is the one a lot of people are
talking about because be 50% he can use
it pretty bluntly you do need don't need
an investigation like [music] some of
the others but he might run into the
same sort of issues there might be more
legal suits following this when it comes
to all them but I think the bottom line
is everyone expects tariffs to continue
under Trump administration
>> a big ruling potentially coming up a
little bit later on this morning as for
the payrolls report the SMR survey 70k
[music] big range talked about it the
highs in the 150s the low around 20ome
unemployment rate expected to come down
to 4.5%. That's key for a lot of
economists on Wall Street who believe
that if this Federal Reserve is going to
reduce interest rates, you need
something like 4647
to keep that door open for month end.
[music] As we count you down to the cash
open, let's get you some single names.
So, we're seeing that disruption. Danny
has more. Hey, Danny.
>> We we certainly are. And and starting
with news that we got just over an hour
ago that Meta will be buying a
multi-gawatt deal of nuclear power
making it the biggest investor among the
hyperscalers in nuclear energy. It means
it's going to be buying energy from the
likes of Vistra of Oculus. You can see
the huge [music] gain pre-market there.
John, you mentioned the movers in stocks
based on what this president has said
and these mortgage companies are exempl
are exemplary of that. President Trump
saying that $200 billion dollars of
mortgage back bonds would be bought by
Fanny and Freddy. He's directing them to
do so. So, you're seeing those rally
this morning. And again, these companies
that offer those types of services.
Rocket, Loan Depot, Open Door
Technologies rallying as much as [music]
5.6%.
Uh, finally, GM falling in this
morning's trade [music] nearly 2% late
yesterday, saying that it was upping its
charge tied to EVs by $6 [music]
billion, making the total hit by its
winding down of certain EV and battery
operations at 7.6
billion. So, that is hurting them this
morning. John
>> Danny, thank you. This is building up to
be quite a costly mistake chasing that
EV story for some of these big players.
Well, and accelerated by the removal of
the incentive that the government used
to provide to buy some of these. And it
really kind of raises the question,
who's the best positioned, who's less
committed to that will outperform this
year.
>> Another charge. Danny, thanks for the
latest. I appreciate it. On our ra this
morning, the Supreme Court could rule
today on the legality of President
Trump's sweeping global tariffs. A
ruling against the levies would undercut
the president's signature economic
policy and could force the US to issue
refunds to importers. Elsewhere,
President Trump directing Fanny May and
Freddy Mack to purchase $200 billion in
mortgage bonds to bring down housing
costs. The president claiming the move
will drive down mortgage rates. Some
estimates suggesting a drop of at least
a quarter of a point. And finally, on
deal watch, Riotinto renewing talks to
buy Glenor, potentially creating the
world's biggest mining company with a
combined market value of more than $200
billion. The company's discussing a
possible combination of some or all of
their businesses, including an all share
takeover. So, this is a redux because
we've seen this before a couple of times
and now we have some new leadership and
we have some new incentives. The issue
in the past has always been price. All
of a sudden, we have copper at record
highs. You have a real incentive for
them to go headto-head with the world's
biggest uh mining company, BHP. And a
real question about what will be
included in that. You sort of alluded to
that. Will it just be copper or will it
also be the things like coal?
>> I've been covering this story for more
than a decade. Yeah.
>> Because Ivan Glenberg started this
conversation more than 10 years ago.
>> Exactly.
>> Okay. The key part of this this time
around is what they would do with coal.
And I think a big thanks goes out to our
team over in London for this reporting
that Rio is said to be open to owning
coal if it buys Glenor. And that might
move the dial to close this deal.
>> Exactly. This is what will move the dial
because forever Glenor has had these
very large interesting copper assets.
Right now copper is super hot going to
13K. People see this power idea, this
demand for copper, the need for the
industrial base and for data centers and
the likes. But it's always been what do
we do with those coal assets? But now if
Rio is saying we will take them on
board, this is really a green light for
this deal to go through.
>> Speak to the movie you're seeing on Glen
Core this morning. That stock is higher
by more than 10%. Watch this space.
Let's turn back to markets. City Wales
CIO Kate Moore noting positivity writing
consensus is largely bullish as we start
this year. And we're watching several
events that could shake confidence in
current positions. Kate joins us now for
more. Kate, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Happy New Year. Good to see you. Let's
talk about those several events you're
watching. what's top of the pile?
>> Well, [clears throat] I I'll mention one
of the events which of course is
relevant to what you've been talking
about this morning, which is around the
AIPA tariffs leading to volatility in
the market because many of the consensus
views are that we're just going to kind
of grind higher over the course of the
next couple months. So, we're going to
watch that, pardon [clears throat] me,
very closely. The second thing we're
watching is actually the strength of the
economic data. So, so many people are
expecting that we're going to have the
Fed cutting multiple times. we see in in
fact three four cuts in many people's
scenarios over the course of 2026. We
actually think the economy is in a very
good place and we're likely to see the
Fed pause for a moment as it waits to
see what the impact of the monetary
policy u cuts over the course of the
back half of 2025 due to the economy. So
I think people may be a little bit
disappointed there. And then finally, a
big risk that we have on our radar and
it's something we talked about as you
know so much at the end of the fourth
quarter was what happens if some of the
data center and some of the AI capex
disappoints or gets delayed you know and
how do we see people hedge those
exposures or pull back from some of
their concentrated positions in the
space. So those are our risks on our
radar but I got to tell you even with
those we're risk right now as we start
2026. We have a constructive view on
equities. I think that's a fairly
consensus view. But unlike some folks
that are calling for a rotation or for
increasing their exposure to exus, I
think the US is without question the
best fundamental house on the block.
>> I want to get back into that in just a
second. A lot of people have come on the
show and said it's been a bit like
whack-a-ole. It's been an exhausting
week. We've had a lot of different
headlines. It's been hard to know what
to focus on and Stephen Major was saying
on a Sunday you can think you have to
totally overhaul everything and then on
a Monday your outlook remains exactly
the same. So, what are you picking up on
in terms of some of these headlines that
are having specific company moves and
potentially could have significant
ramifications?
>> Yeah, I mean, we're kind of fading the
specific company moves and trying to
look through the noise a little bit.
It's pretty hard for anyone to kind of
trade against these headlines. And the
other thing I would say is around
geopolitical risk, right? We've learned
throughout many, many years, decades,
that the markets price in very quickly a
significant reaction to a geopolitical
headline and then fade it, right? And
so, uh, we're trying to figure out now
what are the longer term fundamental
implications of, you know, some of these
changes, um, or some of the invasions
the US has has been engaging in. And we
don't think we're going to see a
significant change in the energy
environment in the very near term, for
example. So, we're not actually making
any changes to our exposure there. The
one risk scenario is something that a
number of analysts have come on today,
which is that the economy does start to
roll over, that you do start to get some
significant weakness as represented in
the labor market, which is a reason why
today's 8:30 a.m. report could actually
be really significant. How are you
thinking about this in terms of what's
being priced and what isn't in that in
that kind of scenario?
>> Well, I think people are worried about
the economy rolling over because the
duration of this expansion has been
exceptionally long. And if you think
about it, we've talked about this
together before for quarters and
quarters. We've talked about the
K-shaped consumer that there are pockets
of weakness in terms of consumption and
yet we continue to chug on and companies
continue to spend and actually we think
there are a number of significant
tailwinds both on the fiscal and as I
was mentioning the monetary tailwind
after the cuts in the second half of
last year but I think people are worried
because there is a strong consensus that
economic growth at least in the first
part of this year is going to be strong
and uh I think they they they're worried
about positioning in the risk on uh and
also we have a lot of consensus around
um you know short duration positions in
the fixed income book and everyone's
kind of trying to test the waters. Our
view though as we talk to companies and
as we hear from them as they've reported
or come to conferences and things is
that the labor market actually is in
okay shape. We're not going to get mass
layoffs. Um in fact even if we're
slowing down the pace of hiring it is
because we're further into this economic
cycle and not necessarily because
there's a reason to um you know
significantly change outlooks. you
that's one of the key catalysts for
today, but the other is going to be the
Supreme Court. And you say that even
though people are talking about these
other avenues to reintroduce tariffs,
there's a number of questions that need
to be answered. After this comes out,
what would you want to hear directly
from the administration to get some sort
of clarity on the direction of travel?
Well, we know that tariffs are going to
be a tool this administration is going
to use for the duration of the term,
right? And we've heard a lot of guests
talk about that. We I certainly agree
with that. The question I have is, you
know, how long does it take to implement
some more of these specific tariffs and
how durable they'll be past this
administration? Do we have a a one-time
shift in terms of our expectations
around margins and business models? Does
this engender a kind of a change, a
shift in supply chains? Do we see kind
of like relationships changing between
suppliers, consumers, uh, and the places
that they do business? And I I just
that's really hard to model at this
point. Um, so it's a risk. I would
expect though if the IPA tariffs were
overturned, we'd see a near-term pop in
the market. People would have a bit of
relief, frankly, for all those companies
that face margin pressure um over the
course of 2025. But I will say, you I
never want to bet against the resiliency
of US large caps who manage through that
margin pressure and manage to, you know,
cut costs in other places or spread out
those costs across multiple SKs in order
to maintain their fundamentals.
>> Another thing you like gold. I always I
like do like gold
>> as a diversifier. And my question for
you is it a diversifier to what?
Equities, bonds, FX to what?
>> Well, I can be a bit cheeky, Jonathan,
and say I've used the gold as a
diversifier in multiple parts of the
portfolio. In fact, when we first were
starting to add it in 2025, we're really
kind of saying, you know, we don't like
the role that duration is playing as a
hedge or diversifier in a multi-asset
portfolio. And so that was the the
initial impetus. Of course, all of the
fundamental reasons as well, central
bank buying, you know, other asset
allocators, diversifying, questions
around the dollar, and actually as we
got through the year and continue to add
to our gold position. We were also
saying we think there are strong, you
know, reasons for people to have a
significant exposure there when other
assets don't have as much potential
upside. So, we're using it against risk,
we're using it against duration, and
we're liking it for the fundamental
reasons. We think we're going to see
more and more people make this a
considerable part of their portfolio
over the next couple years.
>> Can you just flesh out your point on
duration? What you didn't like about it
and has that changed at all coming out
of
>> one of the challenges is, you know, over
a couple of the riskoff periods duration
and equities, you know, didn't actually
have the same relationship that they had
had historically. We were watching this
and saying, you know, there's plenty of
reason, frankly, for the long end to
stay higher than it had been, right? uh
we're looking at deficits staying high
and going higher not just in the US but
in the rest of the world um that lack of
fiscal discipline kind of weighing on
bond market uh participants and then I
would also say that we have this
constructive view which we had
throughout the course of 2025 on growth
and expecting inflation to be a little
bit spicier than the market was pricing
in. So those were the two of the kind of
the main reasons the lack of the kind of
the hedging properties as well as the
fact that we thought that rates should
stay higher for economic fundamentals.
Something else that you've said which is
not consensus is that you don't think
that going outside of the US is a good
diversifier that you think that the US
really is going to be the main engine of
growth which is counterintuitive given
your call on gold. Can you explain that?
>> Well, you know, you start the year and
you guys see this all the time. people
put out their outlooks and they say, um,
we're going to diversify against some of
the strongest markets. In this case,
yeah, rotate. But in this case, rotate
for rotation sake is something I just
just drives me nuts. Um, but in the this
case, the US underperformed in both
local and US dollar terms last year. We
know this. And most of that
underperformance was frankly because
other markets had multiple expansion.
Um, and they benefited from the weaker
dollar.
the earning side drove the majority of
the returns in 2025 for the US. And so
my joke here is that if you want to
rotate just for rotation's sake, you
should be adding more to high quality US
equities where the majority of the
market is being driven by earnings, not
by multiple expansion in currency. Um,
and you have a lot of people saying,
well, Europe is cheaper. We know that
European multiples are less than the US,
but for real reasons. It's around
profitability. It's around margins. It's
around free cash flow. um and for the
and that is not a strong enough reason
in itself to own say Europe. Uh we also
are not as excited as some folks are
around kind of the fiscal spend outside
of defense in Europe for example and
that is actually fairly well priced as
you guys know well know in the market.
So um we want to stick with earnings
which we think are going to be the
driver of equity markets over the course
of this year and we see the best
earnings prospects in the US and
actually in emerging Asia.
>> Kate it's good to see you as always.
Thanks for dropping by Kate Moore of
City Wealth. Very much America first.
Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara with
more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. [music] Colombia's president
Gustavo Petro says there is quote a real
threat of US military action against his
[music] country. The remarks suggesting
relations have not significantly
improved even after a phone call between
[music] Trump and pro this week after
which Trump said they would meet at the
White House in the near [music] future.
Meanwhile, President Trump saying
overnight he canled a second wave of
attacks on Venezuela. That's because he
says Venezuela is working well with the
US on rebuilding its oil and gas
infrastructure and releasing what he
says are large numbers of political
prisoners.
And Johnson and Johnson reaching a deal
with the US government to lower US drug
[music] prices in exchange for tariff
exemptions. As part of the deal, J&J
will offer its drugs to [music] the
Medicaid program at comparable prices to
other developed countries, plus
participate in Trump [music] RX, a
website soon to be up and running where
patients can purchase medicines
directly. That brief John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next, reviving Venezuelan
crude.
>> Going to meet with the, you know,
biggest oil people in the world. They're
all coming here. The top 14 companies
are coming here. They're going to
[music] go in. They're going to rebuild
the whole oil infrastructure. They're
going to spend at least hundred billion
dollars.
>> The big meeting taking place later on
this afternoon. We'll get the view of
Dan Stro and a government sex in just a
moment. Live from New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> Live from New York City, welcome to the
program. Equities just about session
highs up by around about a tenth of 1%.
The main event [music] at least for
economic datas later this morning at
8:30 Eastern time with the payrolls
report just around the corner. And the
Savannah this morning reviving
Venezuelan crude.
>> We're taking billions and billions of
dollars worth of oil and it'll be
hundreds of billions of dollars. It'll
be trillions of dollars. will be running
the oil. We're going to meet with the,
you know, biggest oil people in the
world. They're all coming here. The top
14 companies are coming here. They're
going to go in. They're going to rebuild
the whole oil infrastructure. [music]
They're going to spend at least hundred
billion dollars.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump said to meet with
top energy executives as the US aims to
rebuild Venezuela's energy industry. Dan
Stroven of Goldman Sachs writing,
"Higher long run Venezuela production
further increases the downside risk to
our oil price forecast. We estimate $4
of downside to our 2030 base case Brent
price of $80." Dan joins us now for
more. Dan, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> Happy New Year. Thanks for having me.
>> Happy New Year to you, too. How much
pressure is on these executives going
into this meeting later this afternoon?
Yeah. So, we know that energy
affordability and affordability more
broadly is a key focus of the US
administration uh going into uh the the
midterms uh season. In terms of the
outlook for Venezuelan production, I'd
like to distinguish the short term where
there are likely some lowhanging barrels
uh where you can increase production
perhaps in the tune of you know 400 500
KBD in the first one to two years with
some easier fixes. um doing some
workovers on the fields uh fixing some
of the so-called upgraders to process
the heavy oil on the one hand and then
on the other hand more substantial
production increases if you want to go
back to production levels from from the
past you need substantial investment you
need time you need incentives you need
guarantees and I think you need policy
clarity on both sides both in Venezuela
uh and and in the US so I I think the
probability of a modest short-term
increase has gone up over the last week
but I think the probability of a very
large increase over the long term um you
know is still well below 50%.
>> There's a sense that right now any
additional Venezuelan crude will
cannibalize from US oil production and
frank and frankly refining as well both
the US as well as Canadian and it will
take away because the Canadian oil tends
to be closer to the Venezuelan. How do
you see that shifting uh right now just
based on what the current constraints
are? So I you know I think that's how
the equities have have priced it with
some of the Canadian oil producers and
US shale oil producers uh coming down
this week and share prices for the
majors that are either producing in
Venezuela or have produced in major in
Venezuela uh you know rising but at the
margin I still think that uh US shale
production is largely pinned down by by
price and we estimate uh you know modest
downside to prices uh from an increase
in Venezuelan production. So yeah, at
the margin it would be somewhat of a
negative to shale shield production. But
big picture, US shield production
continues to surprise to the upside
despite lower prices. We held our Miami
energy conference in Miami earlier this
week where Secretary Chris Wright also
also spoke. The message from the
producers, the US shield producers was
we keep getting better at producing more
oil even at lower prices with lower
cost.
>> How's Muhammad bin Salman doing?
Uh so um Saudi Arabia crude production
um you know has been stable u is
expected to remain stable in the first
quarter of this year based on guidance
from uh core OPEC producers. Our base
case is that production in Saudi Arabia
will remain stable this year. Uh and
that uh we don't expect production cuts.
Uh and so we we continue to look for an
over supply market of around 2 million
barrels per day which explains our base
case that prices edge down. We have
brand averaging 56 this year WTI 52 but
with two-sided and wide geolitical risk.
I think as the headlines of the last 24,
48, 36 hours all illustrate whether it's
Russia, Iran or Venezuela.
>> Dan, you don't think the kingdom will
step in if the president gets $50 of
arrow oil, what he's targeting.
>> Um, so we think that the production
increases from Saudi Arabia have been
strategic and have largely served
internal purposes. I think Saudi Arabia
is setting the stage for a tighter
market down the road by discouraging
shield supply, encouraging
>> $40 gap between what Riad and Washington
want. They can't budget to $50 a barrel.
>> So I I think you know OPEC typically uh
targets market stability. I think Saudi
Arabia is sort of maximizing long-term
profits from oil production as opposed
to short-term prices. Prices in the
short term tend to fluctuate. Um I think
they have a longer term uh term
objective. Do you think the price could
potentially also experience some more
volatility to the upside if the US
continuously goes after these shadow
fleet tankers?
>> I do think so. You know, I think a lot
of the geopolitical risks are sort of
short-term bullish because there's a
rising probability of disruption. But
with the US administration's ultimate
goal being energy supply abundance and
lower prices, often these actions, and I
think that's what Iran last summer and
last weekend illustrated, a lot of these
actions are implemented, operations are
implemented without disruptions with the
ultimate goal to raise production. So
short-term bullish uh medium-term uh
more bearish.
>> Can you put some numbers on a shadow
fleet? What kind of numbers are we
talking about? What kind of supply does
that account for? Yeah. So, uh, oil on
water is near an all-time all-time high.
Uh, last year in 2025, uh, global
visible oil stocks rose by 1.3 million
barrels per day. That's that's almost
500 million barrels. The vast majority
about 80% of those increases in global
visible stocks were on water very often
being transported uh by by the dark
feed. I think the bullish ar bullish
argument for the oil market is that
inventories in the OCD pricing centers
are still low. positioning is very
short. We saw saw some short covering uh
over overnight, but we put more weight
on the fundamentals. The market is overs
supplied. We think we need somewhat
lower prices in 26 to rebalance the
market uh from 27 onwards.
>> Dennis, good to see you. Was looking
forward to this conversation. Thank you,
sir. Dan Stroven there of government
stacks. To your point, there's a big
spread between what the kingdom would
like to see and what a president would
like to get.
>> It's massive and this administration has
a very good relationship with Saudi
Arabia as well as with the United Arab
Emirates. But obviously there is a big
difference in the prices that they want
to see. Their budget is $90 a barrel.
The president, according to the Wall
Street Journal, is looking at $50 a
barrel. In order for him to get that, he
would need to extract some more crude
from Venezuela. And that's going to take
a lot of convincing today with these 14
oil executives going to the White House.
>> These meetings in Vienna get a little
bit more interesting. Now the US has got
a seat on OPEC.
>> Yeah. I wonder if Secretary Wright or
Secretary Burdom [laughter]
or Well, remember when the prices went
to negative, it was Trump who cut the
deal with Muhammad bin Salman and Putin.
So, he's always sort of had a seat at
the OPEC table. Will we have a seat?
Will the United States have a seat when
President Trump is no longer President
Trump? That's my question.
>> It's a good question. Coming up on the
program, Jason Draa of UBS, the US
Interior Secretary, Doug Bergam,
Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research, Jeff
Rosenberg of Black Rockck. Next hour,
it's the big one. Payrolls report just
around a corner from New York City. The
third hour of Blindberg surveillance up
next.
[music]
The US economy really was massively
resilient. The labor market is a
different labor market.
>> The unemployment rate is moving [music]
higher gradually.
>> It's frozen but not melting down.
>> We're going to start to see some signs
of the labor market stabilizing over the
next several months.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. From our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
Your scores look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 inching [music]
just a little bit higher on the S&P
likewise on the NASDAQ and the Russell.
In the bond market, very very tight
trading ranges to start the year on a
10-year maturity and for that matter
over the past few months [music] on a
10-year at the upper end of that range
at 41890 with yields high by two basis
points. In 29 minutes time is the main
event for the economic data. It's the
payrolls report. The estimate in our
survey is 70K. the previous number
[music] 64 and the hope for a lot of
people hopeful that unemployment comes
down from 4.6% to 4.5
>> and that's actually what some people
would argue is priced into the bond
market. The reason why you're seeing
yields continuing to creep a little bit
higher and that the biggest risk
scenario at least for bond markets is
for yields to go substantially lower.
City groups Andrew Holland Hor and team
[music] just put this out saying they
expect 75,000 uh in terms of the
headline number. Yay, right? But the
unemployment rate rising to 4.7%.
[music]
Boo. That means that right now you're
going to get a Fed that's going to cut
rates later this month. And that's the
reason why they're looking at that
deterioration being the bigger story.
>> Used to feel big on payrolls Friday. Big
data point. Really important
consequential commercial break moments
ago. [laughter] Amarie,
>> don't sell me out.
>> I couldn't care less about the payroll
report today. [music]
>> I could care. I just want to let
everyone know I actually think it's
going to really matter. The truth is in
fairness to Amory, it has been a very
volatile start in terms of news
headlines [music] to the year and I
think everyone is pretty exhausted.
Nonetheless, the economics will take
front and center when it comes to
certainly the markets but also the
politics. So the biggest question for me
today is will [music] the Supreme Court
say that the president using AIPA his
fentanyl tariffs reciprocal trade levies
do they exceed US presidential power?
For me that [music] is the biggest
question say the most important thing.
Then you pile on top of that Wall Street
Journal headline just few minutes ago.
US coast guard boarded a fifth oil
tanker. [music] You have 14 oil
executives coming to the White House
today with the president trying to cajol
them back to Caracus. The president says
he wants his representative Bill Py to
buy $200 billion more mortgage back
securities and home loans. There is a
ton of economic news happening right
now. So do I care about this job print
that everyone's going to come out and
say throw cold water on it and say well
you know is it clean? What does it mean
for the Fed? Let's wait for CPI and then
we can maybe discuss [music] all that.
>> Tune in 8:30 Eastern time.
>> The Josh report just around the corner.
Coming up, Jason Drao of UBS Global
Wealth Management with stocks trading
near all-time highs. The US Interior
Secretary Doug Bergam joins us in just a
moment ahead of a meeting with energy
executives at the White House and
Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research breaking
down the December jobs report. We begin
this hour with stocks stalling as
investors await a fresh reading on the
labor market and I'm Marie too. Jason
Dra of UBS Global Wealth Management
writing, "The Fed is still more likely
than not to cut rates again in March,
and it will probably require more than
one month of positive labor market
surprises to further delay the cut."
Jason joins us now for more. Jason, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> You care. We care. Come on, let's make a
think of it. All right, the jobs report
at 8:30 Eastern time. What is a positive
report? What does that look like
>> to me? Like, well, a really positive
surprise is probably something like 120
because the consensus at 70, there's
some higher numbers around 90. I think
to really surprise the markets to the
upside and get the Fed to think hm maybe
there's stronger living market than we
think probably in the 120 plus range
>> 120 in unemployment where 45
>> uh well so like think like the unrounded
number was 4.56 so they can take two ten
of from go to 46 to 45 that's like
that's nothing to go to 44 would be
something that this is a more material
change so I think those numbers would
get the Fed like oh there's something
there a lot of seasonality we know we
will get sort of the annual revision I
think in February
The numbers are probably the headline
numbers are probably overstated. I think
pow even alluded to this in December
which is why I think you need a big
number to really think have the Fed
think maybe this is not just
stabilization but sort of start to
reaceleration in the labor market.
>> I can't let go Amory dismissing this
report because I actually do think it's
going to be very important because
ultimately there's a lot of noise there
are a lot of headlines but the real
signal is going to be in the economy and
we haven't gotten a clean read. I mean
how important is this amid the noise of
all the headlines to you as a compass of
what comes ahead? Ultimately given what
you we've talked about in terms all
these various factors when there's so
much noise I try always go back to like
what are the economic fundamentals like
what's the growth outlook what's the
inflation outlook and is it going to be
better or worse and do these things
these developments actually change that
in some way so if we get economic data
like the labor market data that says
we've gone from softening and weakening
of labor market last year to
stabilization and potential
reaceleration that kind of feeds into
the where the markets were already kind
of pricing kind of this growth run hot
narrative if we don't get that I think
that starts to challenge it much more so
than anything else that that we could
hear this So what I'm hearing from you
and please correct me if I'm wrong is
that if we get a weaker than expected
employment uh print that could pose a
bigger riskoff move to stocks in ter in
terms of asymmetry in how markets are
positioned. Is that correct?
>> I mean again it gets into what is the
surprise. So if it's 50,000 40,000 I
think that doesn't scare the markets. If
it's like 10,000 or zero that suddenly
suggests some of the confidence I think
investors are looking at a variety of
labor market data think we've kind of
stabilized. You kind of call that into
question. So I think that again would
sort of spook the markets. Jason, you're
selling me on the job support. I'm now a
little bit more excited, but I want to
know, do you think the shutdown had any
impact on this reading we're going to
get?
>> Well, the shutdown ended sort of mid
November. We know that for government
employees that really distorted the the
November payrolls report, which that's
why I think the 65,000 for private
sector was really important. I think the
question still is like given the
seasonality adjustments, other factors.
I think there's still noise and so this
is why I think the markets could also
sort of dismiss this reprint to some
extent. So, I'd say it's important, but
depending on what your narrative is, you
can kind of say, "Well, we need more
data points."
>> Is that basically what Amory said a
little bit earlier?
>> Yeah, this is what now I was excited and
now you made me unexited.
>> Got someone back on your team. Can we
just figure figure out the amount of
intervention we've had so far this week
from this White House? And as an
investor, how consequential you think it
might be? Is it positive or is it
negative? Well, I think that's a
question we're all sort of trying to
grapple with like how much is this is
real versus sort of headline sort of
tweet kind of announcements whether it
is the mortgage you know payments
whether it is talking about you know
defense companies not paying things out
clearly if you have a more activist or
interventionist policies then as an
investor as a shareholder you think well
do I need to price in a higher risk
premium for because I just don't know
what sort of announcement will take
place that could alter company's cash
flows I think right now the view is
probably still very much these are
headline noises not fundamentals and you
kind of go back to kind of the idea of a
kind of a Trump put for the equity
markets that you can sort of rattle the
zebra so much but not you know too far
but if that gets questioned and then
then you you know that that's becomes an
issue this year
>> the equity market has certainly had a
fantastic run Jason it's good to see you
Jason Drajo there of UPS global wealth
management the president leans on
mortgage back securities and what
happens you see these single names that
offer mortgages rip just rip in the
pre-market
>> there is a real message though in what
Jason just said and frankly in the
market reaction which is they see the
feds they see the president's put more
than they do the stick Right? Even if
you do have the potential caveats
around, say, defense stocks, they
rallied on the proposal for a budget
increase, even if it was improbable that
that would actually get through
Congress. So, the stock market's taking
the good. The bond market's looking for
the bad, but not finding it. It seems
like everyone is expecting only the
positive, not the stick.
>> It's a big tasty carrot right now for
some of those names at this.
>> Yum, yum, yum.
>> Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. I like that Bremo. I'll let
that go. You know,
>> carrot cake. Maybe it's at the top of
the food pyramid. Yes, we can [laughter]
get into that later. Let's get into that
later. I looked at that. I was like, a
bad time.
>> I mean, come on. Everyone really
ridiculous. Like sugar on the top.
Really?
>> I'm pleased they finally made that move.
Okay, let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. Let's do that. Let's get your
Blimbo brief with you. Hey yra.
>> Hi, John. The United States reportedly
seizing the oil tanker Oina in the
Caribbean. And the Wall Street Journal
reporting US forces boarded the ship
which was falsely flying a Timor Les
flag while transporting Venezuelan oil.
This marks the fifth such interception
of a [music] ship in recent weeks as
President Trump aims to control
Venezuela's exports. Meanwhile, NASA
will conduct a medical evacuation of an
astronaut suffering an undisclosed
illness aboard the International Space
Station. and the astronaut who is in
[music] stable condition will return
with the three other members of their
mission which launched back in August.
This marks the first time in NASA's
history a crude mission has been
shortened for medical reasons. And the
college football semi-finals kicked off
last night with Miami defeating Miss
31-27 [music]
in the Fiesta Bowl. Hurricanes
quarterback Carson Beck delivered a
gamewinning touchdown run to punch their
ticket to the national championship.
Miami will take on the winner of
tonight's Peach Bowl between Oregon and
the undefeated [music] Indiana Hooers.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Indiana sweatshirt in the control room.
You've seen that already?
>> I actually haven't, but I imagine that
there are a couple of them.
>> Big fan in the control room.
>> Yeah, [music] I know. Hooser up. Boiler
up.
>> No, that's Poo.
>> Another [laughter] school in.
>> Let's move along, folks. So focus on the
food.
>> Up next, the morning calls. It's me
teaching you. Ridiculous. Okay. We'll
also catch [music] up with the US
Interior Secretary Doug Bergam in just a
moment on the meeting taking place at
the White House between the president
and energy [music] executives.
[music]
>> [music]
>> If you got a strong a strong data
release today, something that indicated
the economy was much stronger than we
expected. I think the cynics out there
might might question whether the data
was correct. I think it's the broader
trend that matters. You got to smooth
these numbers out over a period of time.
I [music] think the trend and the path
is quite clear towards lower rates. That
was the brilliant Steve Major of
Tradition joining us. Outed to buy a
little bit earlier on this morning.
[music] Anticipating these job numbers
at 8:30 Eastern time. The numbers about
17 minutes away. Into that, the scores
look like this. Futures positive by a
tenth of 1% on the S&P [music] on the
NASDAQ high by 0.2%. That's the price
action. Here are your morning calls.
First up, JP Morgan double upgrading
Southwest overweight, placing the
airline on its positive catalyst watch
ahead of earnings later on this month.
Your second call from Missouo
downgrading Qualcomm to neutral
anticipating headwinds to its handset
shipments this year. That stock is down
by 1.8%. [music] And your third and
final call from Truist upgrading Loheed
Martin to buy citing fading Doge
concerns and strong global demand and
the potential for a pretty big budget
coming out of the US. Down in [music]
Washington DC, Loheed Martin in the
pre-market higher by 1.5%. Let's turn to
energy. Nearly 20 energy executives
meeting with President Donald Trump
today to discuss rebuilding Venezuela's
oil infrastructure. The lineup includes
representatives from Chevron, Exxon, and
Kico Phillips among others. Also
attending the meeting will be the US
Interior Secretary Doug Bergam who joins
us now. Mr. Secretary, welcome to the
program, sir. And happy new year. Just
frame for us the expectations for
today's conversation.
Well, the expectation today is to have a
great conversation about the opportunity
uh to continue President Trump's uh
agenda, which his agenda of course has
been always about the safety and
security, national security of our
country. That begins with you can't have
national security without border
security. You can't have national
security without energy security. So,
that's uh going to be on the table. And
of course the prosperity of uh of
America uh that's based on on energy as
well because if without without a
plentiful abundant reliable secure
energy uh you're going to have the
inflation like we saw in the previous
administration. President Trump is
turning that around. So this is a really
at the core it's a discussion about
peace in the world and prosperity at
home and uh what an opportunity economic
opportunity to restore uh normal
relations with Venezuela uh and for
companies including many of these that
had operations in Venezuela uh for
decades ago when Venezuela was a big
economic partner in the United States
before its collapse. Uh get a chance to
return to that. So uh looking forward to
it. It's an exciting day and lots of
interest in coming to the meeting today.
and not enough not enough seats in the
room uh in terms of executives that
wanted to join in the meeting today with
uh with President Trump.
>> Secretary Bergam, I know that you and
Secretary Ryder have that outreach with
the oil industry right now, but what I'm
hearing is that they are certainly
lining up for meeting with the
president, but they're not ne
necessarily lining up to go back into
Venezuela. What are they telling you?
Well, I I think the uh very strong
interest uh how can you not be
interested in the world's largest oil
reserves in the same hemisphere. Uh so I
think there's questions of course uh
questions about security, questions
about uh what the long-term profile is
going to be, but the interest level is
through the roof uh across from the the
the the small wild caterer to upstream,
midstream, downstream uh the the majors.
There's so much interest in this and not
just in energy. Uh people are reaching
out because the the mining industry
collapsed in Venezuela. Their entire
electrical generation industry has
collapsed. The opportunity with
sanctions being selectively listed for
the US companies to sell into that
market as it rebuilds uh is very
interesting. And of course, we've got a
number of energy companies uh that have
spent their careers uh going into some
of the world's uh dangerous places to
develop oil resources. and those folks,
some of those will be in the room today
as well.
>> But it's going to take tens of billions
of dollars for them to allocate capital
to go back into Venezuela. Does the math
make sense when WTI is trading below $60
a barrel?
>> Well, the the market is going to decide,
but I know that one thing uh that
happened this week uh people keep
saying, "Oh, below 60 uh there's going
to be no interest." Uh through the
Department of Interior, uh we're holding
our as required legal lease sales. uh
the one that we held in New Mexico
earlier this week on January 6th. Uh
$327 million of royalty payments uh and
a record the highest since these leases
have begun under the new format. It mean
over almost 40 years 39 years ago in
1987 was when the new rules came in
place. Uh it was $219,000
per acre on one of the leases in Perian.
So I would say the interest uh US uh and
in Venezuela very strong in this
industry because they see they look
ahead and they see the demand for energy
going up and of course driven by
economic growth uh 2026 could be a
banner year but also the energy required
uh for us to win the AI arms race. So
there's a strong strong interest in this
investing uh in this western hemisphere.
>> Does the administration have a goal of
getting oil to $50 a barrel?
Well, I think what President Trump wants
is he wants to break the back of
inflation, and he knows that uh there's
a component of energy in the food you
eat, the clothes you wear, the car you
drive. Uh if if you can get energy
prices down, that's the best way to lick
inflation. And affordability is
something that matters. President Trump
is has stopped the runaway inflation.
The prior administration, he wants to
keep it going. When when uh we talk
about how do we get prices down, part of
it is we've cut so much red tape in the
last year. We've lowered the break even
point. That plus the technological
innovation from this industry, the oil
and gas industry uh is not what it what
it was 50 years ago. This is a super
high-tech industry. You take a look at
my home state of North Dakota and you
look at the capability and the
productivity increases of the people
developing there. Uh it's just been
amazing the gains that they continue to
make. Uh and again, the shale revolution
uh tied with deregulation, cutting some
of the red tape that was put in place.
uh we know that their break even point
is getting lower and lower and that's uh
why it makes it a great industry and
that's why we've got the greatest
industry in the country in the world
because in the US we've got competition.
Uh we don't have a nationalized oil
industry that's become a monopoly and
lethargic. Uh we've got great companies
that get out and compete. We're going to
be with some of those great companies
today. uh and uh excited to hear their
ideas about how to go in and break free
uh the incredible uh opportunity that is
for both the US and Venezuela uh in
developing this resource.
>> Mr. Secretary, a lot to unpack there,
including about the shale patch. I do
want to stay on this question of US
backing of some of these US companies
going into Venezuela and building out
the infrastructure there. President
Trump has talked about potentially a
$100 billion investment potentially over
the next 18 months. Where would the
funds come from in the United States for
some of these energy companies to help
back those investments?
>> Well, the discussions right now have
been that the capital is going to come
from the capital markets and come from
the energy companies. Uh I don't see
that the that these companies are going
to need support from the US other than
things around security. I mean if we can
provide a secure stable environment the
resource here is so significant and so
large uh that it's going to be
attractive for people to go in and
develop that and particularly uh as the
US maintains the embargo this is key uh
you reported on it just now President
Trump serious I mean sanctions under
President Trump actually mean a sanction
the failed sanctions under the Biden
administration just turned Venezuela and
other places into the discount gas
stations for China and other countries
and President Trump is we're going to
make sure that this is uh secure and
we're controlling the flow both of uh
energy going in and energy coming out.
Venezuela's heavy crude requires a
dilutant. It requires a a light crude
like we've got in the United States uh
to go down there. One barrel has got to
go into Venezuela for every five barrel
that comes out. Russia controlled that
market. That market's coming back to the
US. uh and the synergy between our uh
refinery sector in the United States
which was built around Venezuelan oil
getting back to that's great news for
refiners, great news for gas prices for
Americans, uh great news for the
opportunity to sell modern equipment uh
to modernize this industry. So uh lots
of news for beyond even the oil the oil
majors, lots of great news economically
as we open up this trading and
normalized trading relationship with
Venezuela. Yeah, certainly Valero as a
refiner has seen the benefits of this.
Mr. Secretary, you talk about security
guarantees and if the safety is there,
the oil majors will go in with frankly
capital markets behind them. What kind
of security guarantees are they asking
for?
>> Well, we'll find out some of that more
today. But I think what they really want
to understand is, you know, how serious
is uh the US in maintaining the the
embargo? How serious is the US in uh
maintaining uh stability uh in
Venezuela? And I think the actions that
they're seeing this week speak loudly to
that. The actions of President Trump uh
enforcing the embargo and already the
cooperation. I mean earlier this morning
uh President Trump just in the last half
hour uh tweeted out that the uh the
Venezuelan interim government is
releasing political prisoners. They're
they're taking actions to demonstrate uh
that they want to have a successful
economic relationship with the United
States of America. uh they've the the
interim government's committed that
they're going to be buying uh equipment
material from the US companies. I mean
these are all the signals that we're
looking for that to keep us moving
towards normalized relationships.
>> Mr. Secretary, as you know to establish
stability in this region, it might
require massive expense from the US
government which might require a lot of
money from taxpayers. If these oil
majors go in with the support of the US
government, Mr. Secretary, would the
president want a slice of that revenue
for the US government?
Well, I think President Trump is uh
always looking for good deals for the
American people, but he also as a
business person, he understands that we
have to have the right economic
conditions for companies to go in uh and
and deploy their own capital and solve
these problems. So, I think in the end,
what we're going to see is uh we've got
a we're so fortunate to have a president
uh who has got the willingness and the
courage uh and the understanding of how
to use force just like past presidents
did. I mean, we wouldn't have the Panama
Canal without bold action by the
Roosevelt 125 years ago. And now under
President Trump uh again uh taking a uh
a corollary of the Monroe Doctrine,
which is saying, "Hey, if we've got
criminal enterprises running countries
and destroying countries in our
hemisphere, that's bad for the
neighborhood. Uh let's go in and clean
it up uh and do that." But when it comes
to rebuilding, I think again what we've
seen uh is that the if we can create the
right market conditions, uh we're not
going to need taxpayer dollars to go do
this. And who's going to benefit? The
taxpayers because they're going to see
lower prices at the pump uh here in
America.
>> The reason I bring up this question,
sir, is because as you know, there was
some conversation about chips being sold
into China and the government getting a
share of the revenue associated with
those chips. And I wonder if the same
kind of thing applies here because I
think the executives going into this
meeting later are trying to figure out
what kind of meeting they're going into.
Is it an opportunity to explore
Venezuela by themselves or alongside the
US government and what kind of agreement
could be established further down the
road?
>> Well, I think initially it's going to be
alongside the US government because as
been stated publicly this week, uh the
US intends to control the disposition of
the oil uh coming out of uh Venezuela.
And as I said earlier that it's going to
control whatever material uh and
supplies uh and in this case uh you know
the millions of barrels of dillument
that need to go in to extract this heavy
Venezuelan crew that is going to be
controlled by the US uh during this
period uh in cooperation with the
interim government in Venezuela. So I I
think that they can hear more about that
firsthand today, but it's going to match
what they've heard publicly uh this
week. And I know from talking to a
number of these executives this week, uh
Chris Wright has talked to a number of
these executives this week, there is a
lot of interest uh in getting back into
the world's largest proven reserves
right here in our hemisphere. And and
again uh that's a a great benefit uh to
the entire Western Hemisphere, but
absolutely it's a benefit to the
American citizens.
>> Mr. Secretary, we appreciate your time.
I imagine this is going to be an ongoing
conversation and we look forward to
exploring the issue with you through 26.
Happy new year, sir. the US Interior
Secretary Doug Burham. Without a doubt,
these majors are going to be interested
going in. Along what timeline? That's
going to be the question a lot of these
guys are going to have to establish real
stability. Need to see how this plays
out for a number of months, don't you?
Maybe even years.
>> Exactly. And the point he brings up is
that the questions he continuously gets
asked is about security. You want to go
back in there if it's stable. Remember,
Exxon, Kico Phillips, they're still owed
owed money from the mid200. But what he
says he's hearing from oil executives is
very different than what me and other
journalists are hearing from oil
executives, which [music] they're very
skeptical about going back into
Venezuela.
>> Lisa, let's just put it this way.
There's a lot of work to be done on this
issue
>> to even understand the questions that
some of these oil executives have that
need to be answered by the
administration.
>> Up next on the program, we'll get to the
jobs report. It's just around the corner
with equity futures positive by a tenth
of 1% on the S&P 500. We're looking for
about 70K and [music] an unemployment
rate to fall back to about 4.5%.
>> [music]
>> Mike McKe messaged me just moments ago.
He said, "The last time you wished me a
happy payrolls Friday was September
5th." September 5th.
>> Oh, that's pretty.
>> It's been a while.
>> Yeah. Well, it's the reason why people
are talking about clean data. Do we get
it this time?
>> Crazy.
>> We were doing this on like random
Wednesdays, aren't we?
>> Yeah.
>> Futures look like this. Your scores set
up as follows. We're positive by 0.2% on
the S&P 500. Likewise on the NASDAQ.
Here's a quick picture of the bond
market as we anticipate [music] this
jobs number. The estimate is 70,000.
With the jobs number is Mike McKe. Good
morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John, and happy December
9th. Uh 50,000 is the change in non-farm
payrolls with a net revision to October
and November of a negative 76,000. So
over the 3 months, we're down by 26,000.
Changing private payrolls 37,000.
manufacturing payrolls were down 8,000.
Uh the private payrolls is only half of
what was uh forecast. So u this is a bit
of a rebound in the government uh sector
it seems. The unemployment rate 4.4%.
Uh it was 4.6 a six last month or well
basically for November we'll call it and
uh the feeling was that that might round
down to four five because government
workers who mclassified themselves as
unemployed would fall out but we've gone
down to 44. Uh labor force participation
rate 62.4. We'll look into the reasons
for the uh drop in unemployment and see
uh if it fits into the so-called good
news categories. Average hourly earnings
up 3/10en for the month and uh for the
year 3.8% it was three and a half% the
last month. So the president gets
something out of that but a 4.4%
unemployment rate on the face of it
looked like he's not going to get any
kind of January rate cut from the Fed.
>> Mike McKe. Thank you sir. We'll come
back to you in just a moment. So you all
remember the routine. The first move is
not always the right move, but where's
the emphasis this morning on headline
payroll? Soft unexpected, some big
downward revisions or on the
unemployment rate coming into this. The
view on Wall Street was unemployment at
4647 keeps the door unlocked nicely for
a rate cut at the end of this month 44.
Does that change the conversation for
the FOMC? Yields high by three basis
points at the front end of the curve.
Two's up to about 352. The 10-year bond
yield at the upper end of a very tight
range for the year so far, 419. And in
the FX market, I have to say in the
stock market right now, pretty muted
price action off the back of some of
this. Up by 210 of 1%, Lisa, on the S&P
500.
>> Right now, at least the initial message
from the 2-year yield is that this takes
a little bit of emphasis away from the
Fed cutting rates at the end of this
month. The idea that you got a 4.4%
unemployment rate after getting a 4.56%
unemployment rate at the previous
reading. That was also revised lower to
4.5%. So, you are getting a revision
lower. You will get some people who will
come out and say it's all a noise. How
can we really understand any of this?
And the headline number was weaker.
Nonetheless, on the margins, this
doesn't indicate a further deterioration
that would really embolden some of the
doves to really go aggressively at the
beginning of the year.
>> Am still standing closely by where would
you put the emphasis this morning
looking across this report? Well, we're
going to emphasize the unemployment
rate, and I'm still working my way
through this, but the Labor Department
does say that it adjusted the seasonal
adjustment factors that are used in this
report for the year, and that uh that
may have had an impact on why we see the
unemployment rate drop 210 of a percent.
Uh we've still got to see what the the
overall uh number is and what the
rounding number is, and then we'll take
a quick look. Uh I'll take a quick look
at what the biggest changes in jobs are,
but right now uh to say 64 or to say
50,000 uh that is slower than
anticipated, but the unemployment rate
falls uh more than anticipated and what
you end up with is that low fire, lowire
economy we've been talking about for
months.
>> No real change as you were. Mike McKe,
thank you. We'll come back to you later.
as you were for market pricing and Fed
cuts this year as well about 50 basis
points and as you were Fran Marie is
probably feeling pretty good about
herself given that she wasn't interested
in this number at all about 20 minutes
ago.
>> I'm excited now 4.4%. A lot of people
are going to say this shuts the door for
the Federal Reserve to have another
interest rate cut. Also looking into
this though this might become a problem
for the administration. When you look at
once again manufacturing sees yet
another contraction in payrolls they are
really trying to sell this message that
manufacturing is coming back to United
States. It's where the jobs are. We're
just not seeing it show up in the data.
>> If you are just tuning in, welcome to
the program. So, a slight downside
surprise on the headline jobs number 50K
the estimate 70,000. Lots of focus on
the unemployment rate that was at 4.6
revised to 4.5. It's come down to 4.4%.
The expectation today was that it would
come down to about 4.5%. If you push
this through the equity market at the
moment, going into the opening bell,
equity futures positive by a quarter of
1% on the S&P 500, up by a third on the
NASDAQ. Turn to the bond market. Yields
have been bleeding just a little bit
higher throughout the session. Up now by
two basis points on twos to 351 on tens
up one to 418. With us around the table,
Stephanie Roth of Wolf Research to kick
off the post payrolls conversation.
Stephanie, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> What's your reaction to this? What are
you focused on?
>> I'm focused on the unemployment rate as
is the market. Uh it was a big downside
surprise whether it's seasonals or not.
We're now looking at 4.4%. W- which the
risk for this report was certainly that
it would be lower rather than higher but
we certainly didn't get that higher
outcome in which case certainly the the
January cut is off the table and and now
the focus is on the labor market is
largely pretty stable. Um, and I think
that there's a legitimate chance that
employment will get revised up rather
than down in the subsequent benchmark
revisions, which is very different from
what say Powell has been talking about
that we should think about each
payroll's number 60,000 lower than what
is reported. I think there's a chance
that it ends up getting revised higher
into the future.
>> So the risk management adjustment of the
Federal Reserve is over. That's done.
That's behind us.
>> Yeah, I think that's fair.
>> What's in front of us? Just a period of
stability and going nowhere until we get
a new Fed chair. Yeah, I think this is
this was that last time was the last cut
for Powell and now we're going to see
not much out of the Fed until we get the
new chair and in which case then we'll
be in an environment where inflation is
is likely decelerating in the middle of
the year. The bump that we get in the
beginning part of the year because of
fiscal will start to fade. Uh we'll see
a little bit of a a cooling in in the
economy in which case they can probably
cut another couple of times.
>> Is this clean data?
Yeah, I think it's as clean as the first
print on payrolls can be because we know
that response rates are a lot lower on
the first release than the subsequent
second and third. So, this is clean
unlike the CPI data which we're going to
get next week which is going to have
some significant fallout as a result of
the government shutdown. This has
largely worked itself out in terms of
government shutdown effects. Do you feel
more confident about the unemployment
rate really representing something
that's going on based on some of the
other data that we've gotten this week?
Whether it was the Joltz data and the
quits rate, whether it was what we saw
with respect to ADP numbers or even ISM
services data. Yeah, I think the
collective data is telling us that the
labor market is stable, if not starting
to improve a bit. Now, of course, hiring
has slowed down, but some of that has to
do with with retail, which seems to be
retailers concerned about what was how
the holiday season was going to play
out. It seems like perhaps the holiday
season went, you know, a bit better than
expected. So what what the collective
data is telling us is that we're not
deteriorating in the labor market. If
anything, you're starting to see
marginal improvements. Whether it's, you
know, the quits rate, whether it's
layoffs rate not looking uh any higher,
whether you're seeing claims continue to
be stable, all of the data are telling
you the picture is that the labor market
is largely fine. Governor Myron was on
this week and he really was talking
about the reason why he wants to see
lower interest rates. He was talking
about what's going on with inflation. He
thinks a lot of that has really
evaporated. What would we need to see
next week in an inflation print for the
Fed to consider cutting with a 4.4%
unemployment rate?
>> That's we're not going to see that next
week. [laughter]
>> Well, what for him to maybe go into the
meeting and make that argument? I think
it's going to be a tough one because
what we're going to see next week is a
pretty decent bounceback in terms of
following the government shutdown
because there were uh a number of of of
cities about 20% of the the metro areas
are surveyed every other month those
that were supposed to be surveyed in
October. The BLS put in a 0% inflation
for them. So we're going to get a
catch-up in that. So it is incredibly
unlikely that we're going to see a soft
CPI print next week. Certainly one that
they can make an argument such that the
Fed should be cutting as a result of
soft inflation. I believe we get that
data this coming Tuesday on the 13th.
Mike McKe still with us. Mike, your
thoughts on what you're seeing at the
moment?
>> Well, we're breaking down the
unemployment rate numbers and if you uh
start at the top level and go out to
three digits, the unemployment rate for
December is 4.375.
It was 4.536 in November. So, this is a
significant move down in unemployment.
Breaking it down, uh we see the labor
force rose by uh actually fell uh during
the month by about 45,000 uh people uh
in in the labor force. And then the
household employment number rose by uh
about uh we're calling it 231
thou 232 232,000 and unemployment uh
fell by a little over 200,000. So more
people got jobs, fewer people were
looking for jobs. And so in uh the
parliament of uh this uh kind of stuff,
we're looking at bad news is good news.
And that's why we see the unemployment
rate come down. Biggest job losses were
in retail and uh the biggest job gains
as usual were in health and social
services. The unemployment or job loss
in retail is not usually a surprise for
December and January. Maybe a little bit
for December, but uh retailers start
letting people go. We'll see if that
continues into January.
>> Mike, happy payrolls Friday. It's good
to see you. It's been 4 months. It's
ridiculous. We haven't done a payroll
Friday in four months. Unreal. Robert
Tipp Jim joins us now to build on the
conversation in the bond market. Robert,
would you conclude established in the
same way that Stephanie has that the Fed
here has done at least until we get the
next Fed chair?
You know, I can understand based on the
one month where you could come to that
conclusion, but if you look back over
the last 6 months, 12 months, 24 months,
there's a linear rise in the
unemployment rate. There's
month-to-month variability, but the
trend there is definitely rising. The
wage growth of 2 310% per month is about
equaling inflation. So, there's zero
real wage growth there. So, I think for
a Fed that really has been very focused
on the unemployment rate, they're going
to focus on the trend. And I think this
keeps us on course for them to continue
slowly cutting the Fed bonds rate as we
go through this year.
>> Robert, do you think though that that
means later in the year that we end up
getting the rate cuts, not necessarily
on January 28th?
>> So I think uh January, there's a lot
going on there. We'll be on the eve of
uh Mr. Myron's uh term expiring there.
They have just moved three meetings in a
row and I think that is going to be
really important here and the chair has
discussed that now they're on the cusp
of or in the top end of the neutral
range. So they may feel like they're not
having an impact on the economy here.
They can stand to skip a meeting. Um the
pace of growth in the economy is fine. I
don't think that's the problem, but
there is a trend rise in unemployment
going on and I don't think they're going
to be comfortable with that and I don't
think we can assume after a big jump a
couple months ago that a one-mon drop of
of a tenth and a half is uh is an end to
that trend. So, I think they're going to
be on course for for cautious cuts to
ensure the extension of the expansion.
Robert, do you feel like because this
wasn't highly conclusive data that would
encourage the Fed to cut rates in the
next few weeks that that actually
encourages your decision to go and buy
longer duration bonds? In other words,
they're not going to be overly
aggressive in terms of cutting rates and
that will allow some of that or perhaps
uh permit the the weakness that you see
to really take hold.
>> Yeah. And uh I think it is a strategic
buy point for bonds. I mean, we're up
here pushing 5% in the long-term
treasuries. Your long-term credit
product have very attractive yields.
Your bond market is very attractive. And
unlike a couple years ago when you had
an inverted yield curve, you're looking
at a 3.6% cash rate that is probably
still on its way down. So I think that
uh a number like this which is a very
stable economy uh slow deceleration in
inflation probably uh Fed cutting rates
that that people are going to continue
to pick away and I would point out that
your money fund balances have continued
to rise. So money has been going into
the bond market pretty steadily over the
last year. People are you know getting
anxious about were getting anxious about
their 4% T bill yields. Now we'll be
anxious about their 3.6% 6% T bill
yields
should be thinking about going out into
the market and extending duration. We
haven't even really begun to see an
asset allocation shift from money funds
to bonds. So I think it is supportive of
the back end to see this kind of
cautious uh Fed approach to rates.
>> Robert, some of these themes forces
factors unique to the US bond market
because certainly the performance of the
10-year Treasury was somewhat unique
regarding the global bond market in the
last 12 months. The drop off we saw in
the 10-year yield is not something we
saw replicated in big developed market
sovereign debt markets. Robert, what's
special unique about this US market at
the moment?
>> Right. Yeah. This is a fantastic cycle
for global bond managers because if you
have a central bank clock and in our our
recent quarterly, I put a central bank
clock there and talked about how, you
know, a year ago everybody was cutting
interest rates except for Japan. Now
there are a lot of central banks that
are transitioning from that. Oh yeah,
we're done. like the ECB or the Reserve
Bank of Australia. Uh and the market is
starting to price in hikes. Korea, all
around the world, there's been a big
shift towards that end stage. I think
that's made markets anxious. Uh you
know, for the strong performance the US
bond market had last year. It was a weak
year in Europe. They just had about a 1
and a.5% return on their aggregate
index. But on balance, markets are
taking turns, kind of leading what is a
very slow bull market out there where
the bond market is outperforming cash.
It's outperforming. Everybody's
terrified to be in the market on any
given day, but over time, you know,
those yields are accumulating into
returns.
>> Robert, good to see you. Smart as
always. Robert Tip there of PGM fixed
income. Quick final word from Stephanie
Roth of Wolf Research on this jobs
report. Stephanie, what's the takeaway
for you? You've had a few extra minutes
to pull through this one. Yeah, I think
it's the the backdrop is in a labor
market that's actually pretty decent.
Like I said earlier, there's a decent
chance that the the hiring environment
is actually a little bit better than the
numbers suggest. If if you look at
nominal consumer spending, it would
suggest that nominal income in this
economy is actually a little bit
stronger than than initially reported,
in which case we might see an
environment where uh the the balance is
is is notably better. We're likely to
see an environment where inflation picks
up in the next couple of prints,
specifically this one. And then then we
continue to have issues with Q1
seasonality, in which case it's likely
that the the Powellled Fed is done
cutting and we're likely to get a couple
more cuts later this year. But the
economy is largely fine. We're going to
get fiscal stimulus uh hitting once we
get to tax season. And there the the
tailwinds are stacked with an
administration that is doing whatever
they can to try to address
affordability, which is a very difficult
issue to address, but they are certainly
going to keep trying.
>> The next stop for the economic data,
inflation data on Tuesday on January
13th. The numbers this morning decent
payrolls growth okay but it's better to
see an unemployment rate at 4.4 than
certainly four five 46 47 Stephanie Roth
of Wolf Research. Thank you. Good to see
you as always. Let's give you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara. Hey
Yahara.
>> Hi John. Just to recap that jobs report.
Non-farm payrolls coming in at 50,000
for December. That's lower than
estimates that called [music] for an
increase of 70,000. The unemployment
rate ticked down to 4.4% 4% as you said
with the previous month's figure revised
[music] down to 4 and a.5%. The mixed
data still shows traders pricing in
about 50 basis points [music] of rate
cuts for the year but a near 0% chance
for the Fed's January meeting.
Meanwhile, Meta announcing new deals to
power the company's AI data centers. The
agreements could total more than 6
gawatts of nuclear power, [music] enough
for about 5 million homes. Meta says it
will purchase electricity from Vistra,
Olo, and Terrap Power. The deals would
make the tech giants one of the largest
buyers of nuclear [music] power among
the hyperscalers.
And Oregon officials calling for calm
after federal agents shot and [music]
wounded two people in Portland
yesterday. The Department of Homeland
Security said a border patrol agent
fired [music] a defensive shot at a
vehicle after the driver quote
weaponized it and drove off. The
shooting came a day after an ICE officer
shot [music] and killed a woman in
Minneapolis. That's Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next, we'll catch up with
Jeff Rosenberg of Black Rockck, breaking
down the latest jobs report and what it
means for this Federal Reserve live from
New York City. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
I'm focused on the unemployment rate as
is the market. Uh it was a big downside
surprise whether it's seasonals or not.
We're now looking at 4.4%.
Which the risk for this report was
certainly that it would be lower rather
than higher, but we certainly didn't get
that higher outcome in which case
[music] certainly the the January cut is
off the table.
>> That was the Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research just moments ago following the
jobs report at 8:30 Eastern [music]
time. Coming in a bit softer than
expected on the headline jobs number,
but the unemployment rate coming down to
4.4% 4% unlocking this argument that
this Fed is not going to cut interest
rates at the end of this month. The
price action shaping up as follows. Up
by a third of 1% on the S&P 500 on the
Nasdaq up by 0.4. Some out performance
[music] again on the Russell. The small
caps up by 0.5 as we're currently down
to that cash open about 39 minutes away.
This is the trading diary. There's lots
to get through through the next 24
hours. The Supreme Court expected to
announce its first opinions of the year
in focus of course [music] the
liberation day tariffs. Then at 10 a.m.
we'll also get you Mitch consumer
sentiment. 2:30 Eastern time, the
president meeting with energy
executives. [music]
A sneak peek of next week's CPI data on
Tuesday, plus earnings season kicking
off with results [music] from JP Morgan
and Delta Airlines. That's quite a week
coming up.
>> Yeah, and really it will be the economy
and focus, which frankly should focus
all of us given the sort of pinball that
we've been experiencing this year
because ultimately it's all about the
economy, stupid. [music]
>> Jeff Rosenberg of Black Rockck joins us
now. He's not stupid.
>> No, I don't mean that to anyone. I mean,
Jeff,
>> thank you, sir. Good to see you. Bremo's
brutal sometimes.
>> Thanks for making time for us.
>> Your takeaway from the jobs report,
Jeff, you heard Stephanie. She says the
Fed's done, at least under Chairman Pal.
What's your conclusion?
>> Yeah, I think the headline from this
report is that it was still showing
weakness uh but not weak enough to sort
of trigger a move by the Fed faster than
it was already being priced in. So, you
know, I think this report has a lot in
there for for both sides of the debate.
I think there's a big government worker
distortion going on here. You see it
obviously between the split between the
headline and the private payrolls which
was showing the the private payrolls is
showing some of the weakness and I think
the big headline and what Stephanie was
highlighting is really the Fed's focused
on the unemployment rate. People are
looking at that there's some distortion
as well from government workers coming
back in on the unemployment rate pushing
that downward maybe more than is really
going on in the underlying economy. And
then the third thing which we haven't
talked about which I think is really
important here and it's the split
between kind of labor markets growth and
inflation is what we saw in average
hourly earnings. Now you always have to
caveat your view on wage inflation from
average hourly earnings because it can
be very distorted but you know it's a
it's a little bit of a revision. You see
a little bit higher numbers. Uh 3.8 is a
is a is a is a good number. And the key
issue here is really on the risky asset
side of what does the employment report
tell us about markets and market
positioning and and the issue is real
wage growth and and and can real wage
growth support consumption and take the
baton in 2026 from what really supported
the economy in 2025 which was the wealth
effect. So, if we don't have these
incredible gains in terms of the equity
markets, in terms of the AI
continuation, and that's an if, uh, can
real wages kind of support the economy
and see that rotation? You talked about
Russell outperforming here. It's a
little bit of, hey, if you know, you you
see this broadening in consumption being
supported from real wage growth, that
can kind of be the new story in 2026,
>> which is what a lot of people are
banking on, the sort of broadening out.
and we saw that record high in the
Russell 2000 yesterday, even with an
essentially flat S&P 500. Are you
leaning into that based on the data that
we've gotten so far this week?
>> Well, it's a little early to say this
data is enough uh to to to reach that
conclusion. And I think you have a lot
of kind of other issues associated with
that equity market rotational theme
which is a lot of concentration and
investors really struggling with one of
the key issues for the 26 outlook which
is how do I manage my portfolio? How do
I deal with diversifying and finding
sources of diversification when I have
such concentration you know 40% of the
equity market valuation in the top 10
companies. How do we get away from those
highly concentrated names? How do we
find diversification in the portfolio?
And the economic the broad economic
support for that would be coming from
this notion that you could have an
economy that is spreading out the gains
and and and seeing a broaderbased
recovery. We talk a lot on this program
about you know kind of the challenges of
the K-shaped economy and and do we see
some of that support? So a little
potential hint I don't want to overstate
that and to answer your question
probably not enough in this week's data
to come firmly to that conclusion but it
is pushing in that direction. Jeeoff,
I've got 20 seconds. I'm tight for time.
Forgive me. If the Supreme Court rules
against these tariffs, and we find that
out later on today, is that a buy of
bonds, a sal of bonds, or a shrug of
your shoulders and go to lunch?
You know, I I think the conclusion here
is that we kind of overreacted on the
tariff side, right? We overreacted back
in April. Didn't seem that way at the
time, but but the real issue is we've
overestimated the pass through impact of
tariffs on inflation. And so I think
it's just kind of taken the heat down on
the implications for that. So maybe the
third answer in your in your uh proposal
there, it's a it's a shrug of shoulders.
>> Lunch. It is Jeff. Thank you, sir. Jeff
Rosenberg of Black Rockck. Enjoy the
day. Thank you, sir. Thank you very
much. You said lunch, too. I've got it
in front of me.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, clearly it's sort of
shrug your shoulders because ultimately
we don't really know what's going to
happen with this. It just kind of
creates more noise that we can kind of
parse through. a lot more chaos for
seauitees that are paying some of these
tariffs and maybe they're going to get
reimbured but do you even need to get
reimbured if the president is going
[music] to put on you know a 338 a 232 a
>> I'll take the safe option I've got no
idea
>> which is the reason why
>> this bond market's been so snoozy for so
long now
>> you'll be at lunch too I think
everyone's pretty exhausted they're
saying you know what just have a nice
meal
>> logged into Bloomberg [music] anywhere
of course all right yields up by a
single basis point the tenure 418 tune
in Monday Steve chevrona federated
Nurian Rabini joins us Alicia Lavine as
well and to slug of Apollo from New York
City. Have a wonderful weekend.